###3517006
background	The sinoatrial ( SA ) and atrioventricular ( AV ) nodes are specialized centers of the heart conduction system and are composed of muscle cells with distinctive morphological and electrophysiological properties .
outcome	We report here results of immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase studies on the bovine heart showing that a large number of SA and AV nodal cells share a distinct type of myosin heavy chain ( MHC ) which is not found in other myocardial cells and can thus
background	The antibody used in this study was raised against fetal skeletal myosin and reacted with fetal skeletal but not with adult skeletal MHCs .
outcome	Both atrial and ventricular fibers , as well as fibers of the ventricular conduction tissue were unlabeled by this antibody .
outcome	Specific reactivity was exclusively seen in most cells in the central portions of the SA and AV nodes and rare cells in perinodal areas .
outcome	However , a number of nodal cells , particularly those located in the peripheral nodal regions , were unreactive with this antibody .
outcome	The myosin composition of nodal tissues was also explored using two antibodies reacting specifically with alpha-MHC , the predominant atrial isoform , and beta-MHC , the predominant ventricular isoform .
outcome	Most nodal cells were reactive for alpha-MHC and a number of them also for beta-MHC .
outcome	Variation in reactivity with the two antibodies was also observed in perinodal areas : at these sites a population of large fibers reacted exclusively for beta-MHC .
outcome	These findings point to the existence of muscle cell heterogeneity with respect to myosin composition both in nodal and perinodal tissues .

###8816620
background	To determine the optimum menstrual cycle time to initiate a long-protocol gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist ( GnRH-a ) down-regulation regimen before hMG stimulation before IVF .
study design	Randomized , prospective , single , first cycle study .
other	University teaching hospital .
population	Eighty-six infertile couples undergoing IVF-ET attempt under rules for Ireland .
intervention	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist administered intranasally from day 1 or 21 of menstrual cycle .
intervention	Human menopausal gonadotropin commenced when pituitary down-regulation was confirmed .
other	Ovarian response , cancellation , fertilization , and pregnancy rates .
outcome	No significant differences found between day 1 and day 21 initiation .
outcome	But starting on day 1 is more easily recognizable by patients and avoids the possibility of administering GnRH-a in the presence of an unsuspected pregnancy .
outcome	Both follicular and luteal phase initiation of GnRH-a long-protocol down-regulation are equally efficacious .
outcome	In our clinical context , patients and management favor commencing on day 1 .

###9608840
background	Contemporary computer technology allows precise and fast large database analysis .
background	Widespread and common use depends on appropriate , user friendly software , usually lacking in special medical applications .
background	The aim of this work was to develop an integrated system designed to store , explore and analyze data of patients treated for pancreatic cancer .
background	For that purpose the database administration system MS Visual Fox Pro 3.0 was used and special application , according to ISO 9000 series has been developed .
background	The system works under MS Windows 95 with possibility of easy adaptation to MS Windows 3.11 or MS Windows NT by graphic user 's interface .
background	The system stores personal data , laboratory results , visual and histological analyses and information on treatment course and complications .
background	However the system archives them and enables the preparation reports of according to individual and statistical needs .
background	Help and security settings allow to work also for one not familiar with computer science .

###2328665
background	In a 37-year-old female patient complaining of increasing pain in the neck and occiput , chiropractic manipulations at the cervical vertebral column were associated with ischaemias of the brain stem presenting as vertigo , transient `` locked-in '' sy
background	Digital subtraction angiography ( DSA ) revealed complete obstruction of the right and slight dissection of the left vertebral artery .
intervention	The symptoms receded within a few days after heparinisation with 1000 IU/h intravenously .
population	A 39-year-old female patient developed vertigo , nystagmus , tetraparesis and dysarthria two days after chiropractic intervention because of refractory pain in the neck and occiput .
background	DSA showed embolism of the basilar artery and extensive dissections of the vertebral arteries .
intervention	The basilar artery was completely recanalized after local intraarterial fibrinolysis with 50,000 IU urokinase .
outcome	During the further course of treatment the symptoms receded under heparin and phenprocoumon over a period of 8 months , except for hemiparesis on the left side especially affecting the arm .
outcome	Trivial traumas can result in dissections of the vertebral arteries .
outcome	Severe neck pain is a frequent , typical early symptom .
outcome	Hence , patients with cervical vertebral column syndromes should receive chiropractic treatment only after careful diagnosis .

###18431226
background	Highly sensitized ( HS ) patients ( > 85 % panel-reactive antibodies ) have a lower chance of receiving a donor kidney .
background	Within Eurotransplant the Acceptable Mismatch ( AM ) program was developed to increase the chances of HS patients to receive a crossmatch-negative donor kidney .
other	The standard crossmatch in the AM program is based on complement-dependent cytotoxicity .
population	In this study we wanted to determine the clinical relevance of human leukocyte antigen donor-directed antibodies ( DDA ) detected by the single antigen ( SA ) bead technique , in the pretransplant sera of HS patients transplanted in our center through the Euro
outcome	From 34 AM patients , 27 were transplanted with 1 to 5 mismatches and 7 received a 0-mismatched graft .
outcome	From the mismatched patients , retrospectively , 13 proved to possess pretransplant DDA by SA whereas 14 did not .
outcome	No antibodies were found in the 0-mismatched group .
outcome	Comparison of the DDA + and DDA - patients in the human leukocyte antigen-mismatched donor/recipient combinations revealed a trend to an earlier and higher number of rejection episodes in DDA + patients ( P = 0.08 ) .
outcome	No detrimental effect of DDA on graft survival was observed .
outcome	This single-center study showed that in the AM program DDA detected by SA , and not by less-sensitive methods , may be related to acute rejection episodes but is not detrimental to long-term graft outcome .
outcome	These findings question the increasing use of more-sensitive screening techniques for the allocation of organs .

###11156653
background	Irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) is a common chronic disorder that is associated with significant disability and health care costs .
other	The purpose of this paper is to review and assess published randomised controlled trials examining the clinical effectiveness of interventions for IBS for 1987-1998 .
other	( 1 ) These criteria are adequate description of randomisation , double blinding , and description of withdrawals and dropouts .
outcome	It is concluded that there are few studies which offer convincing evidence of effectiveness in treating the IBS symptom complex .
outcome	This review strongly suggests that future work should include well designed trials that : describe the randomisation method ; use internationally approved diagnostic criteria ; and are double blinded and placebo controlled .
outcome	Clear well defined outcome measures are necessary .
outcome	Inclusion of quality of life measures allows comparison between trials in different therapeutic areas .
outcome	Conducting such studies will help to overcome some of the difficulties identified in this review .

###11200253
background	The effects of lecithinized superoxide dismutase ( PC-SOD ) and/or methylpredisolone ( MP ) in preventing secondary pathological changes after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) were investigated in rats with reference to recovery of hindlimb motor function and express
other	Hindlimb motor function was assessed as the BBB open field locomotor scores .
outcome	The BBB scores of three groups treated with either PC-SOD ( 40,000 units/kg ) , MP ( 30 mg/kg ) , or a combination of PC-SOD and MP ( PC-SOD + MP ) increased with time until 3 days after SCI , and were significantly higher than that of the control group ( p < 0.05
outcome	Thereafter , the score of the PC-SOD group increased , whereas that of the MP group showed a temporary decrease from day 3 to 5 and then it gradually recovered .
outcome	The scores in all groups reached a plateau about 18 days after SCI .
outcome	The PC-SOD + MP group did not show a synergism but a tendency similar to that of the MP group .
outcome	PC-SOD and MP had down-regulatory effects on mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory substances such as interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) , intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( ICAM-1 ) , and inducible-nitric oxide synthetase ( i-NOS ) after spinal cord compression at 3 ,
outcome	The suppression of pro-inflammatory genes expression , especially IL-1beta were greater in the MP group than in the PC-SOD group , while suppression of LPO level was similar in these two groups .
outcome	PC-SOD + MP treatment augmented the suppression of all three pro-inflammatory genes expression and the decrease of the LPO level .
outcome	The level of neurotrophin-3 ( NT-3 ) mRNA increased from 6 h after SCI and reached a maximum after 48 h.
outcome	NT-3 mRNA level was enhanced by PC-SOD treatment , but not by MP treatment .
outcome	Thus , the effect of MP in suppressing these pro-inflammatory genes expression was more than that of PC-SOD .
outcome	The difference in motor function in the early and later stage may be partially due to differences in expression of IL-1beta and NT-3 after either treatment , through an IL-1beta-dependent or NT-3-mediated repair response .

###9436733
background	To investigate the additional diagnostic value of sural nerve biopsy of 64 patients in whom chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy ( CIDP ) was considered , as sural nerve biopsy is recommended in the research criteria of an ad hoc subcommittee to
intervention	Firstly , the additional diagnostic value of sural nerve biopsy was analysed with multivariate logistic regression .
other	Six clinical features ( remitting course , symmetric sensorimotor neuropathy in arms and legs , areflexia , raised CSF protein concentration , nerve conduction studies consistent with demyelination , and absence of comorbidity or relevant laboratory abnormalities ) were entered into a logistic model .
other	Afterwards , all significant features identified from this model , as well as the results of sural nerve biopsy were forced into a second logistic model .
other	Secondly , the diagnostic performance of a neurologist experienced in diagnosis of peripheral nerve disorders was studied by receiver operating characteristics ( ROC ) curve analysis .
outcome	The results of the first logistic analysis showed that CSF protein concentration > 1 g/l ( odds ratio ( OR ) = 38.5 ) and neurophysiological studies consistent with demyelination ( OR = 51.7 ) were strong predictors of CIDP .
outcome	When forcing the significant features and the sural nerve biopsy data into the model , an independent predictive value of sural nerve biopsy could not be found .
outcome	The neurologist was able to discriminate patients with and without CIDP ( area under the curve ( AUC ) = 0.95 ) .
outcome	His diagnostic performance did not improve significantly by offering him the results of sural nerve biopsy .
outcome	Any additional diagnostic value of sural nerve biopsy in the diagnosis of CIDP could not be shown .

###1587334
background	Numerous studies have demonstrated that lesions in the CNS can alter the density of sensory nerve processes in peripheral organs .
population	In the present study , rat spinal cords were transected at the second lumbar segmental level and the density of calcitonin gene-related peptide ( CGRP ) - immunoreactive nerve fibers in the urinary bladder was examined .
intervention	Additional rats had spinal cord transections followed by 12 days of treatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist , MK-801 .
outcome	In the bladders of control rats , CGRP-immunoreactive fibers were present as thick nerve trunks , perivascular plexi , and a fine meshwork of varicose nerve fibers .
outcome	Twelve days following a spinal cord transection , the density of CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibers was markedly reduced ; occasional fibers appeared primarily as nonvaricose fine fibers .
outcome	In bladders from rats receiving a spinal cord transection and MK-801 treatment , CGRP-immunoreactive fibers were abundantly distributed throughout the detrusor muscle ; these fibers exhibited numerous varicosities as well as some enlarged terminal varicosit
outcome	These data demonstrate that ( i ) an upper motor neuron-type lesion markedly decreases the density of CGRP-immunoreactive peripheral afferent nerve processes and ( ii ) following a spinal cord transection , MK-801 appears to enhance the density of CGRP immunos

###11059441
background	Several medications have recently been introduced for the treatment of depression .
study design	We reviewed the literature to summarize their efficacy in the treatment of depression in adult patients in primary care settings .
other	We searched the literature published from 1980 to January 1998 using the Cochrane Collaboration Depression Anxiety and Neurosis Group 's specialized registry of 8,451 clinical trials , references from trials and 46 pertinent meta-analyses , and consultation with experts .
population	We included randomized controlled trials of at least 6 weeks ' duration that measured clinical outcomes and compared one of 32 newer medications with another newer antidepressant , an older antidepressant , a placebo , or a psychosocial intervention for the t
other	The primary outcome was response rate , defined as the proportion of patients experiencing a 50 % or greater improvement in depressive symptoms .
outcome	There were 28 randomized controlled trials involving 5,940 adult primary care patients with major depression , depression requiring treatment , dysthymia , or mixed anxiety depression .
other	Newer agents , including selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors , serotonin norepinephrine inhibitors , reversible inhibitors of monoamine oxidase , and dopamine antagonists , were usually compared with tricyclic agents .
outcome	Average response rates were 63 % for newer agents , 35 % for placebo , and 60 % for tricyclic agents .
outcome	Response rates were similar in the different types of depress
outcome	Dropout rates as a result of adverse effects were 8 % with newer agents and 13 % with tricyclic agents ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	In primary care settings , newer antidepressants are more effective than placebo and have similar efficacy compared with tricyclic agents in the acute treatment of depression .
outcome	Dropout rates as a result of adverse effects are lower with newer compared with tricyclic agents .
outcome	Future studies should compare the effectiveness of different therapies among primary care patients with less severe depression and greater medical and psychiatric comorbidity .

###10435546
study design	The purpose of this interpretive phenomenological study was to generate knowledge about the experience of living with the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder .
population	Persons identified as meeting DSM-III-R ( American Psychiatric Association , 1987 ) or DSM-IV ( American Psychiatric Association , 1994 ) criteria for borderline personality disorder were invited to participate in a private interview focusing on what it means t
other	The data were analyzed using the procedures of interpretive phenomenological data analysis ( Benner , 1994 ; Diekelmann , Allen , & Tanner , 1989 ) .
outcome	Three themes were identified : ( a ) living with a label , ( b ) living with self-destructive behavior perceived as manipulation , and ( c ) living with limited access to care .
outcome	The findings suggest that mental health care for persons with borderline personality disorder could be improved by confronting prejudice , understanding self-harm , and safeguarding opportunities for dialogue .

###15148833
background	CHARM ( candesartan in heart failure assessment of reduction in mortality and morbidity ) is the largest trial program in chronic heart failure .
population	To elucidate the effect of candesartan on various symptomatic chronic heart failure , the randomization protocol was used in 3 separate trial arms : 2028 with LVEF < 40 % who could not tolerate ACE inhibitors ; 2548 with LVEF < 40 % who already were taki
outcome	The overall mortality benefit of the candesartan was better than placebo .
outcome	In the 2 trial arms that included patients with LVEF < 40 % , incidence of the mortality and hospitalization was significantly lower with candesartan than with placebo .
outcome	It may be the new evidence of angiotensin receptor blocker on 3 other types of heart failure .

###16771741
population	An 11-month-old infant presented with acute urinary retention .
background	He had presented 3 months earlier with complaints of an enlarging abdominal mass that was initially diagnosed as a mesenteric cyst on ultrasonography .
background	Voiding cystourethrogram revealed a large bladder diverticulum .
outcome	Bladder diverticulum should be a differential diagnosis in children , especially male , presenting with urinary retention , fever and an abdominal mass .

###12597233
background	Spinal hematoma is a rare and potentially catastrophic complication of spinal or epidural anesthesia .
background	Risk factors include traumatic needle/catheter placement , sustained anticoagulation in an indwelling neuraxial catheter , and catheter removal during therapeutic levels of anticoagulation .
background	Generally , a patient 's coagulation status should be optimized at the time of spinal or epidural needle/catheter placement , and the level of anticoagulation should be monitored during epidural catheterization .
background	Signs of cord compression , such as severe back pain , progression of numbness or weakness , and bowel and bladder dysfunction , warrant immediate radiographic evaluation .
background	A delay in diagnosis and intervention of spinal hematoma may lead to irreversible cord ischemia .

###7846575
population	This study was a retrospective data-base review of patients with cervical injuries admitted to a regional spinal cord injury center over a 9-year period .
other	Patients < 40 and > or = 65 were analyzed separately to determine differences in etiology , neurologic findings , mortality , and neurologic recovery .
background	Previous studies of cervical injuries in older patients have found a high percentage of falling as an etiology , a high incidence of injuries to C2 , and a high mortality rate with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
other	Three databases containing information on all SCI patients , SCI patients with 1-2 year follow-up , and neurogically intact spinal injury patients were reviewed retrospectively .
outcome	A higher percentage of older patients had cervical injuries , and this group did not show the typical male predominance seen in young patients ( 4:1 vs. 1:1 ) .
outcome	Neurologic deficits were more common in the younger age group .
outcome	In the older patients , falls were a much more common etiology , and upper cervical injuries , especially odontoid fractures , predominated .
outcome	Cervical spondylosis and stenosis were more common in the older patients , and the mortality with associated SCI was 60 times higher than in younger patients .
outcome	Younger patients more commonly had complete neurologic injuries , but had more early functional motor return in incomplete lesions .
outcome	The older patients did show late functional return in incomplete deficits .
outcome	Cervical spine injury commonly occurs with relatively minor trauma in patients > or = 65 , with a mortality rate of approximately 26 % with associated SCI .
outcome	Return of functional motor recovery is delayed in older patients with incomplete deficits , but can be expected .
outcome	C2 injuries , especially odontoid fractures , must be ruled out in older patients with neck pain after even a minor injury .

###10883901
background	This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of dorsal rhizotomy on upper-limb spasticity , functional improvement , coordination , and hand sensibility .
population	Fifteen spastic upper limbs in 13 patients were selected and prospectively studied .
intervention	Brachial plexus dorsal rhizotomy was performed in which two , three , or four dorsal roots were completely sectioned .
other	Patients were followed up for at least 12 months after surgery ; the mean follow-up period was 15.6 months and the maximum period was 30 months .
outcome	A remarkable relief of spasticity was observed in all cases .
outcome	Recurrence was observed in only one patient and was caused by insufficient dorsal root section .
outcome	Functional improvement was observed in all cases , and functional improvement in the hand was found to be related to the presence of active finger extension in the preoperative period .
outcome	Even when extended dorsal root section was performed , no hand anesthesia , either total or partial , was observed .
outcome	No patient lost movement ability in the postoperative period , and no ataxic limbs were observed .
outcome	Brachial plexus dorsal rhizotomy is very effective as a treatment for upper-limb spasticity and results in functional improvement without loss of sensation in the hand .

###8053022
background	Several artemisinin ( qinghaosu ) derivatives have been developed and are in use as antimalarial drugs but scant animal or human toxicity data are available .
population	We noted a progressive syndrome of clinical neurological defects with cardio-respiratory collapse and death in 5/6 dogs dosed daily for 8 d with intramuscular arteether ( AE ) at 20 mg/kg/d in a pharmacokinetic study .
outcome	Neurological findings included gait disturbances , loss of spinal reflexes , pain response reflexes and prominent loss of brain-stem and eye reflexes .
outcome	Electrocardiography showed prolongation of the QT interval corrected for rate ( QTc ) .
outcome	Prominent neuropathic lesions were sharply limited to the pons and medulla .
outcome	Neurological injury , graded by a pathologist ` blinded ' to dose group , showed a dose-related region-specific injury which was most pronounced in the pons and medulla in all animals .
outcome	Rats treated with AE and artemether ( AM ) at 12.5 to 50 mg/kg/d for 28 d confirmed clinical neurological abnormalities with high doses ( > 25 mg/kg/d ) after 6-14 d.
outcome	Neuropathological examination of rat brain sections at 5 levels from the rostral cerebrum to the caudal medulla showed a dose-related pattern of injury characterized by hyalinized neuron cell bodies and loss of Nissl substance ; changes congruent with thos
outcome	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###12748811
background	The occurrence of pelvic insufficiency fractures in patients with rheumatoid arthritis has not previously been well emphasized .
background	These fractures are difficult to detect clinically , and appropriate radiological investigation is necessary for diagnosis .
background	A 72-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis presented with severe left groin pain .
background	Pelvic radiographs showed parasymphyseal fractures , and marked instability of these fractures was observed at the follow-up 2 weeks later .
background	Computed tomographic scan of the sacrum showed a widened linear fracture gap in the left sacral ala. .
intervention	Because the patient 's pain was so severe that she could not change position , external fixation was performed to achieve rapid pain relief and early mobilization .
outcome	Although most patients with these fractures respond well to simple conservative treatments , parasymphyseal fractures combined with sacral fractures may cause disruption of the pelvic ring and occasionally need operative management .

###10826663
background	The treatment of bipolar depression represents a relatively understudied area in clinical psychiatry .
background	The depressive phases of bipolar disorder can be very disabling , with significant associated comorbidity and suicide risk , impairment in functioning , and infringement on quality of life .
other	We review the current evidence for the management of bipolar depression .
other	References for this review were obtained through MEDLINE searches of the medical literature on subjects pertaining to the treatment of bipolar depression .
other	Search terms included bipolar depression , antidepressants , and bipolar disorder .
other	Only publications in English are reviewed here .
outcome	Lithium is currently the gold standard and most appropriate initial treatment for the depressive phase of bipolar disorder .
outcome	Other mood stabilizers have demonstrated preliminary efficacy .
outcome	Of the antidepressants , bupropion and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be associated with less risk of inducing hypomania , mania , and rapid cycling compared with tricyclic antidepressants .
outcome	Monoamine oxidase inhibitors should be considered for patients with anergic bipolar depression .
outcome	Electroconvulsive therapy has been shown to be highly efficacious .
outcome	Other treatment modalities , including psychotherapy , sleep deprivation , phototherapy , and newer medications , require further research .
outcome	Although the treatment of bipolar depression can be a complicated clinical task , the treatment armamentarium is expanding .
outcome	Further research , especially in the form of randomized controlled trials , is warranted .
outcome	Clinicians should be familiar with general guidelines for the use of psychopharmacologic agents for treating bipolar depression .

###16818457
background	The majority of tissue Doppler indexes proposed to predict left ventricular ( LV ) reverse remodelling in cardiac resynchronization therapy ( CRT ) reflects LV asynchrony as assessed in ejection phase .
intervention	We evaluated the predictive value of a new strain-imaging parameter reflecting the total amount of time spent by 12 LV segments in contracting after aortic valve closure .
population	Fifty-nine patients who fulfilled current treatment recommendations were studied before and 6 months after CRT .
other	Time to tissue Doppler systolic peak velocity ( Ts ) and time exceeding aortic closure ( ExcT ) in strain curves were measured in 12 LV segments .
other	Ts standard deviation ( Ts-SD ) and sum of ExcT of overall 12 LV segments ( oExcT ) were analysed .
other	After 6 months , responders were defined according to > or = 15 % LV end-systolic volume reduction .
outcome	Responders ( 47 % ) when compared with non-responders ( 53 % ) had significantly higher baseline Ts-SD and oExcT values .
outcome	Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis demonstrated that an optimal cutoff value of 760 ms for oExcT yielded 93.5 % sensitivity and 82.8 % specificity .
outcome	For Ts-SD at the cutoff of 32 ms , 82 % sensitivity and 39 % specificity were obtained .
outcome	Area under ROC was significantly larger for oExcT than for Ts-SD .
outcome	o-ExcT is able to predict LV reverse remodelling after CRT .

###15357699
background	The UK dietary guidelines for cardiovascular disease acknowledge the importance of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) - a component of fish oils - in reducing heart disease risk .
background	At the time , it was recommended that the average n-3 PUFA intake should be increased from 0.1 to 0.2 g day ( -1 ) .
background	However , since the publication of these guidelines , a plethora of evidence relating to the beneficial effects of n-3 PUFAs , in areas other than heart disease , has emerged .
background	The majority of intervention studies , which found associations between various conditions and the intake of fish oils or their derivatives , used n-3 intakes well above the 0.2 g day ( -1 ) recommended by Committee on Medical Aspects of Food Policy ( COMA ) .
background	Furthermore , in 2004 , the Food Standards Agency changed its advice on oil-rich fish creating a discrepancy between the levels of n-3 PUFA implied by the new advice and the 1994 COMA guideline .
background	This review will examine published evidence from observational and intervention studies relating to the health effects of n-3 PUFAs , and discuss whether the current UK recommendation for long-chain n-3 PUFA needs to be revisited .

###9653519
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) subjects at Glasgow Outcome Scale levels 3 ( severe disability ) , 4 ( moderate disability ) , 5 ( good recovery ) , and an other-injury control group ( OIC ) were compared in terms of neuropsychological , psychosocial , and vocational fun
population	Subjects were a sample of 100 patients with a moderate to severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) and a matched sample of 30 other-injury control subjects ( OIC ) enrolled in the UCLA Brain Injury Research Center study of TBI outcome .
outcome	Overall , the results showed a systematic decrease in mean neuropsychological test performance as a function of increasing GOS severity , as well as an increased prevalence of symptoms of depression and lower ratings on measures assessing employability and
outcome	TBI patients in the ` severe ' and ` moderate disability ' groups were distinctly inferior to the ` good recovery ' and ` OIC ' groups , who were quite similar to each other in terms of cognitive , psychosocial , and vocational outcomes .
outcome	The results demonstrate overall support for the predictive and concurrent validity of the GOS 6 months post injury .
outcome	Despite these results , which strengthen the utility and appeal of the GOS for multicentre studies , concerns still remain regarding GOS category 4 ( moderate disability ) , which was shown to lack sufficient discriminability in this study .

###910169
background	Antigens associated with ovarian cancer tissue have been identified by the use of heteroantisera .
background	It has also been reported that lymphocytes from patients with ovarian cancer responded to phytohemagglutinin ( PHA ) and keyhole-limpet hemocyanin ( KLH ) but had failed to respond to autologous tumor extracts .
population	In our series , pretreatment sera from 37 patients with stage III and IV ovarian cancer failed to react with ovarian cancer antigen preparations .
outcome	After therapy , serum from only three patients was reactive : all three patients were treated by chemoimmunotherapy .
outcome	Preliminary data from this clinical trial for treating stage III and IV ovarian cancer with chemotherapy , immunotherapy , or combined chemoimmunotherapy show that survival of patients treated by chemotherapy or immunotherapy corresponded to that of nonresp
outcome	Interestingly , combined chemoimmunotherapy produced a survival curve depicting significant improvement , similar to that for the responders to L-PAM therapy reported in that study .

###16601084
background	Antenatal betamethasone is routinely used for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome in preterm infants .
background	However , little is known of the long term effects of exposure to antenatal betamethasone on lung function in adulthood .
population	Five hundred and thirty four 30 year olds whose mothers had participated in the first and largest randomised controlled trial of antenatal betamethasone were followed .
intervention	Lung function was assessed by portable spirometric testing .
other	The prevalence of asthma symptoms was assessed using the European Community Respiratory Health Survey questionnaire .
outcome	Fifty ( 20 % ) betamethasone exposed and 53 ( 19 % ) placebo exposed participants met the criteria for current asthma ( relative risk 0.98 ( 95 % CI 0.74 to 1.30 ) , p = 0.89 ) .
outcome	181 betamethasone exposed and 202 placebo exposed participants had acceptable spirometric data .
outcome	There were no differences in lung function between betamethasone and placebo exposed groups ( mean ( SD ) forced vital capacity in the betamethasone and placebo groups 105.9 ( 12.0 ) v 106.6 ( 12.6 ) % predicted , difference = -0.7 ( 95 % CI -3.2 to 1.8 ) , p = 0.59 ;
outcome	Antenatal exposure to a single course of betamethasone does not alter lung function or the prevalence of wheeze and asthma at age 30 .

###14720063
background	Lung transplantation has emerged as an option to prolong and increase the quality of life in patients with end-stage pulmonary lung disease .
background	In lung transplant recipients , because of the high potential for acute and chronic allograft rejection , optimal selection , dosage and delivery of immunosuppressive medications is critical .
background	Cystic fibrosis ( CF ) , a multi-organ system disease that often includes pulmonary and gastrointestinal manifestations , represents the leading indication for bilateral lung transplantation .
background	The gastrointestinal manifestations of CF , however , confound post-transplant management by causing significant variation in the rate and extent of absorption of orally administered immunosuppressive medications .
background	Tacrolimus , a new calcineurin inhibitor , is increasingly employed as the primary immunosuppressive agent in lung transplant recipients .
background	Unfortunately , tacrolimus itself exhibits variable bioavailability , particularly in CF transplant recipients .
background	A novel approach to the absorption dilemma is administration of tacrolimus via the sublingual ( SL ) route .
background	Little published information exists concerning the use of SL immunosuppression in transplant recipients .
background	However , emerging evidence suggests that SL tacrolimus provides is an effective means of drug delivery particularly for CF lung transplant recipients .
outcome	Preliminary results from a pilot study , demonstrate that SL delivery of tacrolimus achieves therapeutic serum levels , in lung transplant recipients with CF , over the first few postoperative months .
outcome	In addition , the early postoperative use of SL tacrolimus has been associated with acceptable rates of transplant rejection and normal renal function in a cohort of 22 lung transplant recipients that included CF and non-CF transplant recipients .
outcome	Potential pharmacokinetic advantages of the SL route of delivery include good permeability , rapid absorption , acceptable bioavailability and easy accessibility .
outcome	From an economic standpoint , considerable cost savings could be achieved by using the SL rather than the intravenous route of drug delivery for tacrolimus .
outcome	Comparative , prospective randomized trials are necessary to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of SL tacrolimus in lung transplant patients .
outcome	Until such data are available , the use of SL tacrolimus should be considered in situations where alternative routes of delivery are unavailable or as part of ongoing research studies .
outcome	Ultimately , SL tacrolimus may prove efficacious for short-term use in the early postoperative lung transplant recipients , particularly in patients with malabsorption problems such as CF transplant recipients .

###16531984
background	Reactive oxygen species formation and release of pro-inflammatory/pro-atherogenic cytokines , that is , interleukin 1-beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha , need the activation of the arachidonic acid cascade via the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase ( 5-Lox ) .
background	5-Lox activity and expression are significantly increased in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) of end-stage renal disease ( ESRD ) patients on maintenance hemodialysis ( HD ) .
background	Diets enriched with n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) ( omega-3 ) have been associated to a lower incidence of coronary heart disease ( CHD ) and a reduction in atherosclerotic lesions .
background	Omega-3 may interfere with the arachidonic acid cascade by inhibiting 5-Lox .
population	Lipid peroxidation , leukotriene B ( 4 ) ( LTB ( 4 ) ) production , 5-Lox activity and expression were investigated in PBMC isolated from ESRD patients under maintenance HD before and after a 3-month oral supplementation with omega-3 at a daily dose of 2700 mg of n
other	PBMCs from non-uremic volunteers were also investigated for comparison to normal parameters .
outcome	Administration of omega-3 reduced significantly lipid peroxidation ( P < 0.0001 ) , LTB ( 4 ) synthesis ( P < 0.0001 ) and 5-Lox activity ( P < 0.0001 ) , with no effect on 5-Lox protein expression .
outcome	After the 3-month washout , all parameters were comparable to those observed before treatment .
outcome	Our results resemble those obtained after oral administration of vitamin E and are consistent with a reversible , dose-dependent inhibition of 5-Lox by omega-3 .
outcome	Upregulation of 5-Lox may also be related to the increased mitochondrial damage and apoptosis of PBMCs observed in ESRD patients compared to non-uremic controls .
outcome	Omega-3 may thus protect PBMCs of ESRD patients against oxidative stress .

###8201787
population	Middle-aged and elderly women with no specific disabilities in their daily life were divided into two groups : those visiting clinics with mild physical symptoms and those not visiting clinics .
outcome	Those visiting clinics showed significantly lower mental and physical health indices , but satisfaction and emotional support were similar .
outcome	Although those visiting clinics had significantly more stressful events , no differences were seen in ways they were dealt with .
outcome	For those not visiting clinics , mental and physical health indices were better in their 60s than in their 50s and got worse again in their 70s , while for those visiting clinics indices were consistently low .
outcome	Somatic symptoms in the women visiting clinics could be somatic reactions to their life situation from their 50s to their 60s .

###11835748
background	To compare the outcome of non-operative treatment with the outcome of surgical intraventricular drainage for patients with posttraumatic hydrocephalus including complications , mortality and favorable outcome .
population	Thirty-nine patients were assigned to a nonoperative treatment group and 38 patents to a surgical intraventricular drainage group .
other	Each patient 's outcome was evaluated 3 years after treatment by using Glasgow Outcome Scale .
outcome	In the nonoperative treatment group the rate of favor able outcome ( good recovery or mild disability ) was 89.74 % ( 35 of 39 patients ) and the mortality was 2.56 % ( 1 of 39 patients ) .
outcome	In the surgical intraventricular drainage group the rate of favorable outcome was 71.05 % ( 27 of 38 patients ) and the mortality was 13.16 % ( 5 of 38 patients ; P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Mortality was not significantly different between the two groups .
outcome	Nonoperative treatment may be better than surgical intraventricular drainage for patients with posttraumatic hydrocephalus .

###18581668
background	To compare the t-scores of proximal femur and lumbar spine of patients with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) with different levels of weight bearing .
population	Cross-sectional study comparing 3 groups of patients with SCI : patients with daily standing times of more than 1 hour , patients with daily standing times of less than 1 hour , and nonstanding patients .
population	Seventy-one patients with chronic SCI were recruited .
other	They were assigned to 1 of 3 groups according to their reported daily standing time .
other	The bone density of lumbar and proximal femoral regions was measured with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry .
outcome	The 3 groups were similar in terms of demographics and clinical variables .
outcome	No significant difference was found among the mean t-scores of lumbar and proximal femoral regions of the groups .
outcome	However , the patients in the group that stood more than 1 hour daily had a slight tendency to have higher t-scores than those in the control group .
outcome	There was no significant difference among the 3 groups .
outcome	However , standing might be partially helpful in protecting the bone density in SCI by opposing the effects of immobilization .

###6452797
population	A double-blind crossover comparison of three different single doses of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor , zimelidine , and a placebo on quantified EEG parameters and psychological variables was carried out in ten healthy male volunteers .
intervention	Each subject randomly received 100 mg , 200 mg and 300 mg of zimelidine as well as placebo .
other	C4 -- P4 , P4 -- O2 , C3 -- P3 , P3 -- O1 and Fz -- O1 EEG samples were taken by means of collodium Ag/AgCl stick on electrodes .
other	3 min average Fast Fourier Transformation power spectra based on 5 sec epochs were established .
other	Additionally , performance tests and a subjective self-rating were carried out .
other	The measurements , performed according to a strictly controlled schedule , were repeated 1 , 2 , 4 and 6 h post baseline ( i.e. 8 a.m. ) .
other	The data analysis was performed by means of two-way variance analysis for repeated measurements .
outcome	Administration of three different single oral doses of zimelidine was found to significantly stabilize the average vigilance behaviour in terms of reduced slow wave EEG activity and of increased monorhythmic alpha activity .
outcome	Simultaneously , concentration ability was improved and mild feelings of activation were reported .
outcome	The results are discussed in the light of biochemical aspects and with regard to neurophysiological vigilance concepts .

###12514566
background	Bone is the most common site of breast cancer metastases .
background	Skeletal metastases may be associated with harmful and painful events such as fractures , spinal cord compression , and hypercalcemia .
background	By inhibiting osteoclasts and bone resorption , bisphosphonates can interrupt the process of bone destruction and decrease the risk of skeletal complications .
intervention	A review of the literature was undertaken regarding the use of bisphosphonates in breast cancer management , with particular attention to prospective , randomized clinical trials that have influenced the treatment of bone metastases .
outcome	Large prospective , randomized trials have demonstrated that bisphosphonates are effective in reducing skeletal-related complications from metastatic breast cancer .
outcome	For many patients with osseous lesions from breast cancer , bisphosphonate therapy is a useful intervention in managing their disease .
outcome	Bisphosphonates are the treatment of choice for hypercalcemia of malignancy and bisphosphonates reduce the risk of pathologic fractures , spinal cord compromise , the need for radiation or surgery to bone , and bone pain .

###15068645
background	We studied the perceptions of general practitioners ( GPs ) towards teledermatology , before and after its introduction into eight general practices for the purposes of a randomized controlled trial .
other	A postal questionnaire was distributed before the trial and again one year later .
other	Thirty-six of the 42 GPs responded on each occasion ( a response rate of 86 % ) .
outcome	In the second survey , only 21 % of respondents indicated that they were satisfied with teledermatology in their practice , while 47 % said that they were dissatisfied .
outcome	Thirty-one per cent said that they felt confident about diagnosis and management of care through teledermatology , and 28 % reported that they were unconfident .
outcome	Only 23 % of respondents said that they would consider using a telemedicine system in the future , while 34 % said they would not ( 43 % were unsure ) .
outcome	There were no significant findings to suggest that the GPs ' perceptions changed over time .
outcome	Less favourable responses to telemedicine were found than has been observed in previous studies , which suggests that the model of telemedicine described in this study would not be widely acceptable to GPs .

###17937836
background	The aim of this study was to systematically review economic analyses comparing drug-eluting stents ( DES ) to bare metal stents ( BMS ) in patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention to form an overall view about cost-effectiveness of DES and to c
other	Electronic databases searched from January 2004 to January 2006 were Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews ; DARE , HTA , EED ( NHS CRD ) ; MEDLINE ( R ) In-Process , Other Non-Indexed Citations , MEDLINE ( R ) .
other	References of the papers identified were checked .
population	We included randomized controlled trials ( RCT ) or model-based cost-effectiveness analyses comparing DES to BMS in patients with coronary artery disease .
other	The methodological quality of the papers was assessed by Drummond 's criteria .
other	Baseline characteristics and results of the studies were extracted and data synthesized descriptively .
other	A decision tree model was constructed to evaluate the cost-utility of DES in comparison to BMS , where health-related quality of life was measured by the 15D .
outcome	We identified thirteen good-quality economic evaluations .
outcome	In two of these based on RCTs , DES was found cost-effective .
outcome	In six studies , it was concluded that DES might probably be a cost-effective strategy in some circumstances , but not as a single strategy , and four studies concluded that DES is not cost-effective .
outcome	One study did not draw a clear conclusion .
outcome	In our analysis , the overall incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was Euros 98,827 per quality-adjusted life-years gained .
outcome	Avoiding one revascularization with DES would cost Euros 4,794 , when revascularization with BMS costs Euros 3,260 .
outcome	The evidence is inconsistent of whether DES would be a cost-effective treatment compared with BMS in any healthcare system where evaluated .
outcome	A marked restenosis risk reduction should be achieved before use of DES is justifiable at present prices .
outcome	When considering adoption of a new health technology with a high incremental cost within a fixed budget , opportunity cost in terms of untreated patients should be seriously considered as a question of collective ethics .

###8287298
background	PDPH are not the privilege of spinal anaesthesia , as they can occur in various circumstances including epidural anesthesia , surgical wound of the dura , spinal tap and/or myclography .
background	Diagnosis PDPH can be discussed with four etiologies : cortical vein thrombosis , meningitis , intracranial haematomas ( intracerebral , subdural ) or migraine .
background	PDPH result from the leakage of CSF via the dural hole , responsible of hypotension of CSF in the subarachnoid compartment .
background	Several etiologies and predisposing factors are discussed .
background	The incidence of PDPH varies with age , maximum from 15 to 50 years-old , the decreasing to reach a very low incidence over 65 PDPH seems to occur more frequently in women , especially during pregnancy .
background	The diameter of the spinal needle is the main factor of PDPH .
background	Using small diameters ( 25 G and less ) allows to reduce the percentage of PDPH , as well as using specially designed needles with a `` pinpoint bevel '' ( Sprîtte , Whitacre ) .
background	When PDPH occur , no specific treatment is required before the fifth day , as they spontaneously resolve in 80 % of the patients , without any intervention .
background	After then , epidural blood patch allows 90 % success rate .
background	Other therapeutic proposals are discussed .
background	Finally , prevention of PDPH appears to be the keypoint , paying particular attention to the choice of the needle and of the spinal puncture technique .

###10600294
background	The aim of this study was to describe early occurrences of metastases after laparoscopy of ovarian masses later found to be malignant .
population	The hospital charts of eight women having undergone laparoscopic surgery for ovarian mass were reviewed and analyzed .
other	The mean age of the patients was 40 years ( range 25 to 66 ) .
other	Size of the tumor ranged from 2 to 15 cm .
other	In four patients the ovarian mass was suspected to be malignant in the laparoscopy .
intervention	Diagnostic procedure ( biopsy of the tumor ) was performed in two and salpingo-oophorectomy in six patients .
other	Staging laparotomy was performed within the mean of 17 days ( range 7-29 ) .
outcome	In four patients ( 50 % ) the cancer had spread from a localized to an advanced stage during the delay .
outcome	Ascites was present in the laparoscopy in two of the four patients with port site or abdominal wall metastases .
outcome	Laparoscopic surgery of ovarian mass later found to be malignant can cause considerable and early spread of the cancer .

###16806709
background	Clonidine is approved for spinal administration against neuropathic pain , and reverses both spontaneous and elicited pain in humans following spinal administration .
background	Rodent studies that seek to model pharmacology in pain states have historically relied on reflexive withdrawal from noxious stimuli as the primary endpoint .
other	Drug self-administration studies have face validity in the drug abuse field for modeling drug abuse in humans , however , this methodology has not been applied to address issues related to drug seeking behaviors that may be relevant for other human populations , such as patients with neuropathic pain .
outcome	Rats without spinal nerve ligation ( SNL ) failed to acquire intrathecal clonidine self-administration over 10 days of access .
outcome	Rats were found to self-administer intrathecal infusions of clonidine following SNL in a stable and dose-responsive manner , however , and clonidine was self-administered throughout the day with 66 % of total drug intake occurring during the dark cycle .
outcome	Substitution of clonidine with saline or with clonidine and the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan resulted in extinction of responding in SNL animals .
outcome	Food reinforcement was initially decreased in SNL rats self-administering clonidine compared to normal animals , however , tolerance developed to this effect of clonidine in SNL rats after 5 days .
outcome	These data demonstrate that drug self-administration can be applied to questions other than drug abuse , and provides an additional measure for development of novel therapeutic strategies for chronic pain treatment .

###12669777
background	Osteolytic bone destruction , caused by the aberrant production and activation of osteoclasts , results in significant morbidity for patients with multiple myeloma ( MM ) .
background	Pamidronate [ ( 3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene ) -1,1 - bis-phosphonate ] inhibits osteoclastic activity and reduces bone resorption .
study design	Ran
other	to VMCP/VBAP alternating regimen .
population	Nine patients with stage III myeloma and osteolytic lesions ( 3 female , 6 male , median age 57 years , range 52-67 , with monoclonal protein : IgG-7 , IgA-2 ) were randomly assigned ( 1:1:1 ratio ) to treatment with either 4 or 8 mg of zoledronic acid via 15-minut
intervention	All patients have received 500 mg of calcium supplements and 500 IU of vit.D , orally , once daily , for the duration of administration of study medication .
intervention	In extension phase of the study ( June 2000-April 2002 ) patients did not received bisphosphonates .
intervention	In 7 patients 18 cycles of assessed treatment was administered to each of them and one patient received 16 cycles .
outcome	One patient died after receiving of 12 pamidronate therapy cycles at 11 month of the trial duration ( and at 49 month since MM diagnosis and anti-tumour treatment ) .
outcome	The patient 's death occurred during the progression of plasma cell proliferation due to acute left ventricle cardiac failure .
outcome	During the 12-month-period of bisphosphonate treatment skeletal related events ( SRE ) and progression of osteolysis occurred with the same frequency in 3 treatment groups .
outcome	One patient experienced spinal cord compression and received radiation to bone and 2 patients experienced vertebral fracture .
outcome	Time from study entry to the first SRE was 304 days in pamidronate and 366 and 392 days in 4 and 8 mg zoledronic acid group , respectively .
outcome	The skeletal morbidity rate was identical in all treatment groups .
outcome	Single hypocalcemic events occurred in 2 patients , mild hypertransaminasemia was observed in 3 , worsening of renal function parameters in 2 patients ( transient in one of them ) .
outcome	Muscular pain and fever up to 39 degrees C ( transient and self-limiting `` flu-like '' symptoms ) occurred in 6 patients after several or some dozens of hours from study drug administration .
outcome	Adverse events were similar in nature and frequency with zoledronic acid and pamidronate and were experienced by a similar proportion of patients in each treatment group .
outcome	Median time of patient 's observation duration after completing of administered treatment with zoledronic acid and pamidronate amounts to 20 months .
outcome	At present actual median survival time of analysed patients since MM diagnosis is 42 months , since the beginning of treatment with pamidronate and zoledronic acid -- 33 months , and since completing treatment -- 20 months and is similar in 3 treatment groups .
outcome	As was shown in our single center study in MM patients the safety and efficacy of pamidronate 90 mg and zoledronic acid 4 mg and 8 mg in monthly i.v. infusion are comparable .
outcome	Thus the recommended dosage of zoledronic acid is 4 mg administered as a 15 minute i.v. infusion at intervals of 3 to 4 weeks .

###11689979
background	To evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture as a treatment for chronic pain and secondary symptoms after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and to identify disease-specific variables associated with response to treatment .
other	A within-subjects design consisting of a 7 ( 1/2 ) - week no-acupuncture baseline period followed by a 7 ( 1/2 ) - week treatment period and a follow-up assessment 3 months posttreatment .
other	Medical rehabilitation research center .
population	Twenty-two people with SCI who experienced moderate to severe pain of at least 6 months ' duration .
intervention	A course of 15 acupuncture treatments was administered over a 7 ( 1/2 ) - week period .
other	Numeric Rating Scale of pain intensity ; ratings of interference with activity , individualized symptom rating , Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale ; Speilberger State Trait Anxiety Inventory , and General Well-Being Schedule .
outcome	Ten patients ( 46 % ) showed improvement in pain intensity and pain sequelae after treatment .
outcome	However , 6 patients ( 27 % ) reported an increase in pain that was still present 3 months after treatment .
outcome	About 50 % of the study sample reported substantial pain relief after acupuncture treatment , suggesting that acupuncture may provide pain relief for at least a subgroup of individuals with SCI .
outcome	Future research is needed to determine what part of this effect is because of acupuncture versus nonspecific effects such as placebo effects and regression to the mean .

###2197948
background	A number of risk factors have been associated with osteoporosis , but few of them are particularly strong predictors of low bone mass or increased fracture incidence and the `` best '' set of variables changes from study to study .
background	This does not provide adequate precision for classifying individual patients , and the focus of risk assessment , especially in perimenopausal women , has been on in vivo bone mass measurements .
background	Prospective studies show that these values correspond to subsequent fracture incidence , and there is currently no alternative to bone mass measurements for stratifying patients by fracture risk .
background	However , the level of risk at which treatment should be initiated for fracture prevention has not been agreed upon .
background	Additional research is needed to refine risk factors for low bone mass and for falls and to design interventions to reduce the impact of osteoporosis in the population .

###18172064
background	Patients with Parkinson disease ( PD ) may be akinetic/rigid , be tremor dominant , or have comparable severity of these motor symptoms ( classic ) .
background	The pathophysiologic basis of different PD phenotypes is unknown .
background	This study assessed pallidal and striatal dopamine level patterns in different motor subgroups of PD and normal control brains .
population	Globus pallidus and striatum dopamine ( DA ) levels were measured with high performance liquid chromatography in eight autopsy confirmed PD and five control frozen brains .
outcome	DA levels in the external globus pallidus ( GPe ) of normal brains were nearly six times greater than in the internal pallidum ( GPi ) .
outcome	In PD , the mean loss of DA was marked ( -82 % ) in GPe and moderate ( -51 % ) in GPi .
outcome	DA loss of variable degree was seen in different subdivisions of GPe and GPi in PD ; however , DA levels were near normal in the ventral ( rostral and caudal ) GPi of PD cases with prominent tremor .
outcome	There was marked loss of DA ( -89 % ) in the caudate and severe loss ( -98.4 % ) in the putamen in PD .
outcome	The pattern of pallidal DA loss did not match the putaminal DA loss .
outcome	There is sufficient loss of dopamine ( DA ) in external globus pallidus and the internal globus pallidum ( GPi ) as may contribute to the motor manifestations of Parkinson disease ( PD ) .
outcome	The possible functional disequilibrium between GABAergic and DAergic influences in favor of DA in the caudoventral parts of the GPi may contribute to resting tremor in tremor dominant and classic PD cases .

###17901559
background	A major goal of the second International Workshop on `` Brain Uptake and Utilization of Fatty Acids , Lipids and Lipoproteins : Application to Neurological Disorders '' was the identification of important future research areas that would lead to accel
outcome	Major themes identified for future research include the following : ( 1 ) Rigorous research protocols for fatty acid ( FA ) studies should be established to overcome errors introduced by small differences in chain length and degree of unsaturation .
other	( 2 )
outcome	Using cellular integration models consisting of endothelial cells , astrocytes , and neurons , investigation of functional lipidomics , cell-specific signaling by lipids , and nutritional considerations should be undertaken .
other	( 3 )
outcome	Educational programs should be undertaken for women of childbearing age on the health benefits of omega3 long chain ( LC ) polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) from fish consumption vs risks of mercury in fish .
other	( 4 )
outcome	Studies of the `` flip-flop '' model of passive diffusion should be extended to include other quantitative measures , such as the sizes of different fatty acid pools .
other	( 5 )
outcome	Investigations to establish physiologic roles and concentrations of omega3 LC-PUFA in various compartments of the brain should be undertaken .
other	( 6 )
outcome	Further studies should be carried out to illuminate the role and behavior of tight junctions in the microvascular endothelium of the blood-brain barrier and astrocytes , with emphasis on developing new LC-PUFA and lipid-based carriers of biomolecules acros
other	( 7 )
outcome	Roles and localization of very low density lipoproteins , low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , and the LDL receptor in the brain and their interactions with omega3 LC-PUFA , cholesterol , apolipoprotein E1-4 , and their derivatives in Alzheimer 's disease ( AD ) shoul
other	( 8 )
outcome	Investigation of intraneuronal synthesis of DHA and its effects on signal transduction , apoptosis , and neurite growth stimulation should be undertaken .
other	( 9 )
outcome	Nutrition-based behavioral affects of EPA and DHA , particularly with respect to the omega6 : omega3 FA ratio , gene regulation , neurodevelopment , and conversion to bioactive molecules by cyclooxygenases ( COX ) and lipoxygenase , should be explored .
other	( 10 )
outcome	Further assessment of brain lipid metabolism and neurodevelopment should be performed in DHA-deficient rodent models , including the use of imaging techniques .
other	( 11 )
outcome	Potential toxic effects of COX overexpression and the possible consequences of DHA over-supplementation in various neurological and neurodevelopmental disorders should be characterized .
other	( 12 )
outcome	The relationship between LC-PUFA , stroke , and AD should be clarified , and neurogenetic metabolic diseases that could benefit from supplementation with omega3 LC-PUFA such as DHA should be identified .

###12491503
background	The potential cardiotoxicity of the doxorubicin-paclitaxel regimen , when paclitaxel is given shortly after the end of the anthracycline infusion , is an issue of concern , as suggested by small single institution Phase II studies .
population	In a large multicenter Phase III trial , 275 anthracycline naive metastatic breast carcinoma patients were randomized to receive either doxorubicin ( 60 mg/m ( 2 ) ) followed 30 minutes later by paclitaxel ( 175 mg/m ( 2 ) 3-hour infusion ; AT ) or a standard doxorub
other	Both treatments were given once every 3 weeks for a maximum of six cycles .
other	Close cardiac monitoring was implemented in the study design .
outcome	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) occurred in three patients in the AT arm and in one patient in the AC arm ( P = 0.62 ) .
outcome	Decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction to below the limit of normal were documented in 33 % AT and 19 % AC patients and were not predictive of CHF development .
outcome	AT is devoid of excessive cardiac risk among metastatic breast carcinoma patients , when the maximum planned cumulative dose of doxorubicin does not exceed 360 mg/m ( 2 ) .

###18483004
background	A debilitating consequence of complete spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is the loss of motor control .
background	Although the goal of most SCI treatments is to re-establish neural connections , a potential complication in restoring motor function is that SCI may result in anatomical and functional changes in brain areas controlling motor output .
background	Some animal investigations show cell death in the primary motor cortex following SCI , but similar anatomical changes in humans are not yet established .
population	The aim of this investigation was to use voxel-based morphometry ( VBM ) and diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) to determine if SCI in humans results in anatomical changes within motor cortices and descending motor pathways .
outcome	Using VBM , we found significantly lower gray matter volume in complete SCI subjects compared with controls in the primary motor cortex , the medial prefrontal , and adjacent anterior cingulate cortices .
outcome	DTI analysis revealed structural abnormalities in the same areas with reduced gray matter volume and in the superior cerebellar cortex .
outcome	In addition , tractography revealed structural abnormalities in the corticospinal and corticopontine tracts of the SCI subjects .
outcome	In conclusion , human subjects with complete SCI show structural changes in cortical motor regions and descending motor tracts , and these brain anatomical changes may limit motor recovery following SCI .

###8515864
population	We examined the distribution of mRNA for the peptide cholecystokinin ( CCK ) with in situ hybridization in adult rat lumbar dorsal root ganglia following unilateral section of the sciatic nerve , as well as the effect of systemic CI 988 , a selective antagoni
outcome	There was a dramatic increase in the number of neurons in dorsal root ganglia synthesizing the peptide cholecystokinin ( CCK ) after sciatic nerve section .
outcome	Furthermore , the autotomy behavior of rats was significantly inhibited by chronic i.t. administration of morphine in conjunction with subcutaneous ( s.c. ) injection of CI 988 .
outcome	Neither i.t. morphine nor s.c. CI 988 alone produced a comparable effect on autotomy .
outcome	Our results suggested that up-regulation of the mRNA for CCK in primary afferents after nerve injury may be related to the clinical phenomenon of opioid insensitivity .
outcome	Thus , coadministration of CCK antagonists in combination with opioids may offer a new approach in treating neuropathic pain .

###12505953
population	This case history describes the treatment of a patient suffering with persistent pain .
other	He was treated surgically with implantation of a spinal cord stimulator .
intervention	After surgery , a partial paralysis that could not be explained medically and that was probably related to emotional factors occurred , and cognitive behavioral treatment was begun .
outcome	This paper discusses the importance of considering social and psychological factors when medical treatment options are considered .

###10962609
study design	Prospective monocentric follow-up study .
background	To assess long-term functional and urodynamic results of augmentation enterocystoplasty in spinal cord injury ( SCI ) patients with detrusor hyperreflexia and reflex incontinence who failed to respond to conservative treatment .
other	Department of Urology ( Pitié-Salpétrière Hospital , Paris , France ) , Department of Neurological Rehabilitation ( Raymond Poincaré Hospital , Garches , France ) , Assistance Publique - Hopitaux de Paris , University Paris VI and V , France .
population	Prospective study of 17 SCI patients ( four above T6 level , nine between T6 and T12 , and four below T12 ) with history of refractory urge incontinence to pharmacotherapy .
intervention	Partial cystectomy ( subtrigonal for 15 ) was performed with Hautmann enterocystoplasty ( 15 ) or detubularized clam cystoplasty ( two ) .
outcome	Mean follow-up was 6.3 + / -3.8 years ( range 1.25 - 10.5 years ) .
outcome	Fifteen of 17 ( 88.5 % ) patients were completely continent under self clean intermittent catheterization ( CIC ) ( mean 4.6 / day , range 4 - 7 ) .
outcome	The remaining two patients with pudendal nerve denervation had persistent stress urinary incontinence .
outcome	No operative complications were noted .
outcome	Long-term complications included recurrent pyelonephritis for one patient .
outcome	Maximal cystometric capacity increased from 174.1 + / -103.9 to 508.1 + / -215.8 ml ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Maximal end filling pressure decreased from 65.5 + / -50.2 to 18.3 + / -7.9 cm H2O ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Urodynamic evaluation and clinical assessment demonstrate long-term success of augmentation enterocystoplasty in an homogeneous population ( SCI ) without delayed complications in SCI patients .

###14504374
background	Motor complications are a common cause of treatment failure in Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
population	Although the underlying mechanisms remain obscure , research with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1 ,2,3,6 - tetrahydropyridine ( MPTP ) - treated primates may facilitate their investigation .
population	Repeated administration of L-dopa to MPTP-treated primates results in a loss of drug efficacy ( `` wearing off '' ) and periods of immobility ( `` on-off '' ) .
outcome	Immediately after each dose of L-dopa , animals show an initial worsening of motor performance ( `` beginning-of-dose deterioration '' ) and , at the end of action of each dose , they exhibit a decline to levels of disability below those seen at baseline
outcome	Dyskinesia ( chorea , dystonia , athetosis ) appears rapidly in MPTP-treated primates given L-dopa .
outcome	The greater the degree of nigral denervation , the less exposure to L-dopa that is required to induce dyskinesia .
outcome	The onset and intensity of dyskinesia are related to the dose and frequency of L-dopa administration .
outcome	Increasing brain exposure to L-dopa increases the severity and intensity of involuntary movements .
outcome	In contrast , long-acting dopamine agonists ( DAs ) induce a far lower incidence of dyskinesia , and continuous dopaminergic stimulation may provide a means of avoiding its onset .
outcome	Recent data from MPTP-treated primates suggest that switching from L-dopa to a long-acting DA may reverse the priming process associated with induction of dyskinesia .
outcome	Responses of MPTP-treated primates have proved to be highly predictive of antiparkinsonian activities of drugs in humans and their ability to induce dyskinesia , but they may also have utility in evaluating the mechanisms that underlie a range of long-term

###16737404
background	Following spinal cord injury ( SCI ) , paralyzed muscles undergo physiological changes that alter their force responses to electrical stimulation .
background	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of SCI on the contractile properties and force-frequency relationship ( FFR ) of the paralyzed human quadriceps femoris muscle of adolescents and young adults .
population	Thirteen subjects ( 11 male , 2 female ; age range = 11-24 years ) with motor complete SCIs and 13 matched control subjects ( 11 male , 2 female ; age range = 9-23 years ) without SCI participated in the study .
other	Both groups of subjects underwent the same testing protocol using similar equipment .
outcome	The paralyzed muscles of the subjects with SCI produced 62 % of the peak twitch force and had a fatigue ratio that was 65 % of that of the control subjects .
outcome	The paralyzed muscles contracted 14 % and 25 % faster and relaxed 38 % and 46 % faster than the nonparalyzed muscles in nonfatigued and fatigued conditions , respectively .
outcome	Compared with the control subjects , the subjects with SCI had twitch-to-tetanus ratios that were 84 % and 127 % greater in nonfatigued and fatigued conditions , respectively .
outcome	Relative to the control subjects , the FFR of the subjects with SCI was shifted to the left in the fatigued condition .
outcome	Relative to their respective nonfatigued conditions , the FFR of both groups of subjects shifted to the right with fatigue .
outcome	These findings may have important implications for designing stimulation strategies to reduce the rapid fatigue that limits the clinical efficacy of functional electrical stimulation .

###17253537
background	Disabling tremor or ataxia is common in multiple sclerosis ( MS ) and up to 80 % of patients experience tremor or ataxia at some point during their disease .
background	A variety of treatments are available , ranging from pharmacotherapy or stereotactic neurosurgery to neurorehabilitation .
population	To assess the efficacy and tolerability of both pharmacological and non-pharmacologic treatments of ataxia in patients with MS.
other	The following electronic resources were searched
other	Cochrane MS Group trials register ( June 2006 ) , the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) ( Issue 2 , 2006 ) , National Health Service National Research Register ( NRR ) including the Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Directory ( Issue 2 , 2006 ) , MEDLINE ( January 1996 to June 2006 ) , and EMBASE ( Jan 1988 to June 2006 ) .
other	Manual searches of bibliographies of relevant articles , pertinent medical and neurology journals and abstract books of major neurology and MS conferences ( 2001-2006 ) were also performed .
other	Direct communication with experts and drug companies was sought .
other	Blinded , randomised trials which were either placebo-controlled or which compared two or more treatments were included .
other	Trials testing pharmacological agents must have had both participant and assessor blinding .
other	Trials testing surgical interventions or effects of physiotherapy , where participants could not have been blinded to the treatment , must have had independent assessors who were blinded to the treatment .
other	Cross-over trials were included .
other	Three independent reviewers extracted data and the findings of the trials were summarised .
other	A meta-analysis was not performed due to the inadequacy of outcome measures and methodological problems with the studies reviewed .
outcome	Ten randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria .
outcome	Six placebo-controlled studies ( pharmacotherapy ) and four comparative studies ( one stereotactic neurosurgery and three neurorehabilitation ) were reviewed .
outcome	No standardised outcome measures were used across the studies .
outcome	In general , pharmacotherapies were unrewarding and data on neurosurgery or rehabilitation is insufficient to lead to a change in practice .
outcome	The absolute and comparative efficacy and tolerability of pharmacotherapies to treat ataxia in MS are poorly documented and no recommendations can be made to guide prescribing .
outcome	Although studies on neurosurgery and neurorehabilitation showed promising results , the absolute indications for treating with those methods can not be developed .
outcome	Standardised , well validated measures of ataxia and tremor need to be developed and employed in larger randomised controlled trials with careful blinding .

###18484790
background	Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) has a number of severe and disabling consequences , including chronic pain , and around 40 % of patients develop persistent neuropathic pain .
background	Pain following SCI has a detrimental impact on the patient 's quality of life and is a major specific healthcare problem in its own right .
background	Thus far , there is no cure for the pain and oral pharmaceutical intervention is often inadequate , commonly resulting in a reduction of only 20-30 % in pain intensity .
background	Neuropathic pain sensations are characterized by spontaneous persistent pain and a range of abnormally evoked responses , e.g. allodynia ( pain evoked by normally non-noxious stimuli ) and hyperalgesia ( an increased response to noxious stimuli ) .
background	Neuropathic pain following SCI may be present at or below the level of injury .
background	Oral pharmacological agents used in the treatment of neuropathic pain act either by depressing neuronal activity , by blocking sodium channels or inhibiting calcium channels , by increasing inhibition via GABA agonists , by serotonergic and noradrenergic reu
background	At present , only ten randomized , double-blind , controlled trials have been performed on oral drug treatment of pain after SCI , the results of most of which were negative .
background	The studies included antidepressants ( amitriptyline and trazodone ) , antiepileptics ( gabapentin , pregabalin , lamotrigine and valproate ) and mexiletine .
outcome	Gabapentin , pregabalin and amitriptyline showed a significant reduction in neuropathic pain following SCI .
outcome	Cannabinoids have been found to relieve other types of central pain , and serotonin noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors as well as opioids relieve peripheral neuropathic pain and may be used to treat patients with SCI pain .

###14656249
background	Large outbreaks of Legionella pneumonia are rare , but when they occur provide an opportunity to assess predictors of mortality and efficacy of drug therapy .
background	Although erythromycin has been the treatment of choice for many years , newer antimicrobials with increased activity against Legionella are available .
background	A large outbreak of legionnaires ' disease associated with the Melbourne Aquarium occurred in April 2000 .
other	To describe the patterns and impact of Legionella therapy , and predictors of outcome in a large group of hospitalized patients with legionnaires ' disease .
population	A 6-month retrospective audit of hospitalized patients with proven legionnaires ' disease around the time of the Melbourne Aquarium outbreak was conducted .
other	Statistical analysis was performed using SAS version 8.0 ( SAS Institute Inc. , NC , USA ) .
other	Data were obtained on 104 patients ( 71 aquarium related , 33 not related ) .
outcome	There were six deaths ( mortality rate 5.8 % ) , three of which were attributable directly to progressive legionnaires ' disease .
outcome	The major predictors of death were pre-existing cardiac failure ( P = 0.0035 ) and renal disease ( P = 0.026 ) .
outcome	Erythro-mycin is still the most commonly used antibiotic ( 80 % received i.v. erythromycin ) with clinicians prescribing more than one active Legionella drug in the majority of cases ( 76 % ) .
outcome	Choice of initial antibiotic therapy did not statistically affect outcome as measured by death , length of hospital stay or time to defervescence , although there was a trend towards improved survival with i.v. erythromycin ( P = 0.063 ) .
outcome	Intravenous erythromycin was associated with a 19 % rate of phlebitis , whereas side-effects from other antibiotics were uncommon .
outcome	The most commonly used Legionella therapy in Australia remains erythromycin .
outcome	This continues to be an effective agent , however , side-effects are common .

###11301617
background	The term osteoporosis often conjures up an image of deformed spines , -- small stooping ladies burdened with back pain .
background	Most modern medication against osteoporosis has documented effect first and foremost against vertebral fractures .
background	However , are vertebral fractures a public health issue , and are they frequent and serious enough to warrant aggressive and expensive preventive measures ?
other	Through search in Medline with the terms `` osteoporosis '' , `` vertebral fracture * '' and `` vertebral deformities '' , we identified and reviewed a total of 222 scientific articles on vertebral fractures .
outcome	Incident vertebral deformities entail temporary complaints , and the consequences of prevalent deformities are minute unless there are several deformities .
outcome	Less than 8 % of back pain among the elderly can be attributed to vertebral deformities .
other	A large double-blind , randomised clinical trial demonstrates that treatment that halves the risk of new vertebral deformities barely affects the occurrence of back pain or disability .
outcome	Even if some patients ' suffering is attributable to vertebral deformities , we conclude that vertebral deformities represent a minor public health problem .
outcome	As a consequence , studies exploring predictors of painful vertebral fractures are warranted ; furthermore , more documentation on prevention of non-vertebral fractures is needed .

###15188794
background	Our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance oral nifedipine in pregnant women initially treated with intravenous ritodrine plus verapamil for preterm labor .
population	The study included 73 patients with preterm labor with intact membranes .
intervention	Patients were randomized to receive either maintenance oral nifedipine therapy ( n = 37 ) administered 20 mg every six hours or no treatment ( controls , n = 36 ) after discontinuation of acute intravenous tocolysis .
outcome	Compared to the control group , the mean + / - SD time gained from initiation of maintenance therapy to delivery ( 26.65 + / - 18.89 vs. 16.14 + / - 12.91 days , p = 0.007 ) and the gestational age at delivery ( 37.03 + / - 2.06 vs. 35.1 + / - 3 weeks , p = 0.003 ) were highe
outcome	The proportion of patients who required one or more courses of subsequent intravenous therapy and perinatal outcomes were similar in the maintenance therapy and control groups .
outcome	The gestational age and time gained from initiation of maintenance therapy to delivery were longer in women receiving oral maintenance tocolysis with nifedipine .
outcome	However , maintenance therapy did not decrease the recurrence of preterm labor episodes or improve perinatal outcomes .

###16455365
background	This study evaluates the reliability of type 3 portable monitoring ( PM ) in a home setting .
study design	Prospective study in sleep laboratory .
population	Type 3 device ( Stardust II ) was evaluated in comparison with standard polysomnography ( PSG ) among patients with obstructive sleep apnea .
other	Quality of recorded data and agreement between PM and PSG results were evaluated .
outcome	Low quality of recorded data was observed only in 5 cases .
outcome	Pattern of disordered breathing was recognized correctly by PM .
outcome	Apnea/hypopnea index ( AHI ) correlated well with a mean bias of 3.7 + / - 13.1 / h.
outcome	High sensitivity of PM was observed generally , whereas specificity was lower in mild patients .
outcome	AHI , record time , and sleep position were found to be the main factors that would affect the accuracy of PM .
outcome	Type 3 PM is feasible in unattended home-setting for routine examination .
outcome	Influence of the factors above should be comprehensively considered especially for mild patients .

###16371678
background	Two experiments were performed regarding the effect of conscious control on handwriting fluency in healthy adults and ADHD children .
population	First , 26 healthy students were asked to write a sentence under different conditions .
outcome	The results indicate that automated handwriting movements are independent from visual feedback .
population	Second , the writing performance of 12 children with ADHD was examined on their usual medication with methylphenidate and under placebo .
outcome	In comparison to placebo , medication with methylphenidate resulted in a reduced fluency of handwriting .
outcome	Automated handwriting movements could be elicited in children with ADHD on medication .
outcome	The results suggest that both visual and mental control of handwriting movements affect the automation of handwriting movements .
outcome	Furthermore , a simple training procedure was designed and performed in a case study of a boy with ADHD .

###8567747
background	This article concerns traction lesions of the brachial plexus in adults , focusing on management and recovery .
background	Open wounds of the plexus are now treated surgically as soon as possible .
background	The subsequent rehabilitation is the same as that for closed traction lesions of the brachial plexus in which significant recovery is expected .

###16286345
background	The cognitive profile and outcome of Encephalitis Lethargica has not been systematically described in the literature .
background	Treatment has typically focused upon medical management .
population	The first case report of a patient with Encephalitis Lethargica who underwent a systematic programme of cognitive rehabilitation is presented .
other	Initial neuropsychological assessment conducted during her acute presentation indicated generalized cognitive dysfunction , including memory and executive function impairments .
other	An outpatient cognitive rehabilitation programme addressed the development of awareness and the remediation of memory and executive function impairments .
outcome	Repeat assessment indicated significant improvement in cognitive function .
other	The components of her rehabilitation programme are discussed .
outcome	She has been able to successfully return to her pre-morbid level of work responsibility within 8 months of her admission .

###9017028
background	In about 20 % of MS patients an increased CSF/serum albumin quotient ( QAlb ) has been observed .
background	The reason for this blood-CSF barrier dysfunction is yet unclear .
population	QAlb values from 48 MS patients in relapse were correlated with parameters of active CNS lesions as measured by gadolinium-DTPA MRIs .
population	QAlb values from 20 MS patients without relapse served as controls .
outcome	Mean QAlb values ( x 10 ( 3 ) of a group with spinal cord lesions ( 7.6 + / - 3.6 ; n = 16 ) differed significantly from those of a control group ( 4.6 + / - 1.5 ; n = 20 ; p < 0.005 ) as well as from those of a group with supratentorial lesions ( 5.0 + / - 1.8 ; n = 18 ;
outcome	QAlb values of patients with a spinal lesion tended to decrease with increasing time intervals between onset of relapse and lumbar puncture .
outcome	The data is in consent with the present knowledge on flow dynamics of both extracellular fluid and CSF .
outcome	As a clinical consequence , increased QAlb values in MS patients may hint at an active spinal or , less likely , infratentorial lesion .

###9710409
background	Pain resulting from a usually nonpainful stimulus ( allodynia ) is a common characteristic of neuropathic pain .
background	Among animal models of allodynia , tight ligature of lumbar spinal nerves has been of special interest because it has been reported to be relieved by sympathectomy .
background	The purpose of this study was to determine whether spinal analgesic agents , which have opposite effects on sympathetic nervous system activity ( clonidine decreases it and neostigmine increases it ) , have differing efficacy in this model .
population	Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized , and the left L5 and L6 spinal nerves were ligated .
intervention	At least 2 weeks later , a lumbar intrathecal or jugular intravenous catheter was inserted .
intervention	Withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimulation of the hind paw was determined by application of von Frey filaments before surgery ; after surgery ; after intrathecal injection of clonidine , neostigmine , or their combination ; after intravenous injection of p
outcome	Spinal nerve ligation reduced withdrawal threshold ipsilateral to the lesion .
outcome	Neither chemical nor surgical sympathectomy altered allo
outcome	Therefore , intrathecally administered analgesic agents , one that reduces sympathetic outflow from the spinal cord ( clonidine ) and one that increases it ( neostigmine ) , were similarly effective in this model .

###12647945
background	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) is a condition characterized by progressive airflow limitation and decline in lung function .
background	As seen in other developed countries throughout the world , COPD in the U.K is associated with considerable mortality , and morbidity from the disease places a significant burden on the healthcare system and society .
background	Despite the obvious burden of COPD in this country , there is a lack of recognition of COPD among the general public .
background	Healthcare professionals may also fail to recognize the burden of disease , as shown by underdiagnosis and inadequate managemen .
background	A key step in increasing awareness of the burden of COPD is obtaining comprehensive information about the impact of the disease on patients , the health service and society .
background	The large-scale international survey , Confronting COPD in North America and Europe , aimed to address this need for information , by interviewing patients and physicians in eight countries .
outcome	An economic analysis of patient responses to the survey in the U.K showed that COPD places a high burden on the healthcare system and society with annual direct costs estimated at pounds 819.42 per patient , and indirect cost at pound 819.66 per patient re
outcome	The cost impact of the disease was particularly marked in secondary care , as a result of inpatient hospitalizations , amounting to 54 % of direct costs .
outcome	These results suggest that reducing patient requirement for hospital care could alleviate the burden of COPD on the U.K. healthcare system .
outcome	This will require considerable improvements to the way the disease is managed by healthcare professionals in primary care , with earlier diagnosis and the use of interventions aimed at preventing exacerbations and delaying the progression of disease .

###12287267
background	The authors examine health and population aspects of development policies needed in Sub-Saharan Africa and their potential costs .
background	The focus is on the demand for family planning and how to develop effective programs to meet it .
background	Both the benefits and costs of such programs are considered .

###18568717
background	To evaluate the feasibility of using a newly developed electromechanical gait device ( LokoHelp ) for locomotion training in neurological patients with impaired walking ability with respect to training effects and patients ' and therapists ' efforts and disco
study design	METHODS AND PROCEDURES : design : Case series .
other	setting
other	A neurological rehabilitation centre for children , adolescents and young adults .
other	subjects
population	Six patients with impaired walking function : two after stroke , two after spinal cord injury and two after brain injury .
other	Intervention
intervention	Twenty additional training sessions on a treadmill fitted with a newly developed electromechanical gait device and body weight support ( BWS ) , performed over a study-period of 6 weeks .
other	Patients ' progress was assessed with the following instruments the Functional Ambulation Category FAC ( walking ability ) , the 10-metre walk test ( gait velocity ) , the Motricity Index ( lower limb strength ) , the Berg Balance Scale ( postural capacity ) , the modified Ashworth Scale ( spasticity ) and the Rivermead Mobility Index ( activity ) .
other	After each therapy session , therapists completed a form , thereby indicating whether manual assistance was necessary and , if so , how much physical effort was expended and how much discomfort was experienced during the therapy session .
outcome	The therapists also indicated on the form information about the patient 's effort and discomfort .
outcome	No severe adverse events were observed during the locomotion training with the LokoHelp device .
outcome	Patients improved with regard to Functional Ambulation Category ( FAC ) ( from mean 0.7 , SD = 1.6 , to mean 2.5 , SD = 2.1 , p = 0.048 ) , Motricity Index ( from mean 94 points , SD = 50 , to mean 111 , SD = 52 , p = 0.086 ) , Berg Balance Scale ( BBS ) ( from mean 20 poin
outcome	Therapists required a low level of effort to carry out the training and seldom experienced discomfort .
outcome	Patients described their effort during training as being low-to-exhausting .
outcome	They rarely experienced discomfort , which was mostly related to difficulties with the BWS-System .
outcome	Training intensity had to be adjusted in one patient who complained of knee pain .
outcome	Locomotion training with the newly developed ` LokoHelp ' - system is feasible in severely affected patients after brain injury , stroke and spinal cord injury .
outcome	In addition , our results indicate that the described alternative method of gait training may decrease the exertion needed by therapists to carry out the training .

###1567030
background	We have recently reported a chronic allodynialike symptom in rats after ischemic spinal cord injury .
background	This pain-related behavior is resistant to a number of pharmacologic treatments , including morphine , clonidine , carbamazepine , baclofen , and muscimol .
outcome	In the present report , we present evidence indicating that systemic mexiletine , a local anesthetic and antiarrhythmic agent , effectively relieves the allodynia-like symptoms at doses of 15 and 30 mg/kg in these rats without inducing major side effects .
outcome	It is suggested that systemically applied mexiletine may be useful in treating central pain in patients with spinal cord injury .

###7163721
population	To assess the effect of 3 oz of 80-proof alcohol on the frequency and severity of obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA ) , we studied six OSA patients and six healthy subjects on 2 nights .
outcome	During the 1st night , when no alcohol was given , five patients demonstrated mild and one severe OSA episodes associated with a decline in arterial oxygen saturation to at least 92 % ( hypoxic event ) .
outcome	On the 2nd night after ingesting 3 oz of alcohol just prior to bedtime , all the patients demonstrated a significant increase in the number and/or severity of hypoxic events compared with the no-alcohol night .
outcome	Furthermore , the most severe hypoxic events occurred within 80 to 160 min after sleep onset , a significantly shorter latency after sleep onset than on the no-alcohol night .
outcome	In contrast , the healthy subjects had no incidents of hypoxic events or breathing abnormalities during sleep after ingesting 0.8 gm/kg of alcohol .
outcome	Possible mechanisms for these results are discussed .
outcome	An OSA provocation test using alcohol is proposed during a 2nd night of evaluation for patients with mild to moderate or intermittent OSA conditions , but not for patients demonstrating severe hypoxic events or with alcohol intolerance .
outcome	The alcohol provocation test would serve to determine the influence of alcohol on the frequency and severity of hypoxic events , providing the patient with a measure of the adverse effects of social drinking on their condition .

###8924951
background	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) , treatment of severe male infertility allows an accurate evaluation of oocyte maturity at recovery after corona-cell removal .
outcome	In cycles comprising a GnRH analog desensitization and a stimulation by hMG or FSH , 12 % of oocytes aspirated from follicles ( > 14 mm ) , 34 hours post-hCG are still immature , in prophase or metaphase 1 .
outcome	They are able to achieve meiosis in vitro in 66 % of the cases and will be fertilized ( 2 PN ) by ICSI in 51 % of the cases as the in vivo mature oocytes of the same cohort .
outcome	Nevertheless , the quality of cytoplasmic maturation and consequently of embryonic viability remains to be assessed as there still are few pregnancies arising from in vitro matured oocytes .
outcome	ICSI also represents the only way to obtain normal fertilization in some exceptional but observed anomalies of oocyte maturation , particularly when there is a lack of zona reaction leading to repetitive polyspermy in conventional IVF .

###8918965
population	We studied the respiratory muscles with magnetic transcranial stimulation ( TCS ) in four spinal cord injured ( SCI ) patients as compared to age-matched controls from a database of 40 healthy subjects .
background	These SCI patients all had spinal cord lesions above C6 level with a clinically incomplete tetraplegia .
background	One patient was artificially ventilated .
other	Motor evoked potentials ( MEPs ) were recorded from the diaphragm , the scalenes , the parasternal intercostals and the expiratory rectus abdominis during inspiration and expiration .
outcome	In patients with incomplete tetraplegia MEP latency times were significantly prolonged in the scalenes and the parasternal intercostals , both during inspiration and expiration , and were nearly normal for the diaphragm , which was found to be more or less p
outcome	The mean MEP amplitudes in these patients for all inspiratory muscles studied were significantly decreased in tetraplegic patients , in part due to a decreased number of innervating axons and muscle hypotrophy .
outcome	No MEPs could be obtained from the abdominal muscles , except in one C3 tetraplegic patient , in whom only a very small response was seen during expiration , with a very delayed latency time .
outcome	The much lower location of their innervating nerve roots ( T10 ) and the much longer distance of their spinal exit zone from the level of injury at the cervical spinal cord might at least partially explain this phenomenon .
outcome	In the ventilator-dependent tetraplegic patient no MEPs could be obtained from any of the muscles studied .
outcome	Thus , magnetic TCS is a painless and easily applicable technique to investigate the central motor conduction properties of the respiratory muscles , both in healthy humans and in tetraplegic patients .

###12910336
background	Despite an acknowledgement of the impact of serious mental disorders on informal caregivers , we still know little about how to best help them .
intervention	The aim of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a two-phased carers ' intervention comprising family sessions followed by relatives ' groups .
intervention	This intervention was designed to be of ` intermediate ' intensity , that is , one lying between brief educational programmes and long-term family psychoeducational treatments .
study design	An exploratory randomised controlled trial was conducted comparing the experimental support programme with ` standard ' care .
population	All carers of patients with a psychotic disorder from a defined population were approached .
other	Outcome measures were based on a ` stress-appraisal-coping ' model of caregiving .
outcome	Despite concerted attempts to engage carers , only 42 % participated in the study .
outcome	The carers ' programme did not offer any significant advantage on any of the outcome measures : psychological morbidity , negative appraisal , coping or social support .
outcome	The severity of caregiving difficulties decreased over the study period for the group as a whole .
outcome	There is still uncertainty about the most effective interventions for carers .
outcome	Meeting ` needs ' may not improve caregiver distress .

###10185991
background	To evaluate the status of transmyocardial laser revascularization ( TMLR ) from an evidence-based perspective to help hospitals make resource management decisions .
study design	Qualitative systematic review of the clinical literature .
other	We searched the reference databases MEDLINE , BIOSIS , EMBASE , SciSearch , and Current Contents to identify all articles related to TMLR published between January 1985 and March 1997 .
other	We collected , analyzed , and summarized clinical studies in evidence tables .
population	The cumulative evidence available in the medical literature regarding the safety and effectiveness of TMLR encompasses approximately 2000 patients treated worldwide , primarily those with medically refractory angina .
outcome	Preliminary data suggest that TMLR has an acceptable survival rate and effectively relieves angina in approximately 75 % of patients .
outcome	Data showing improved myocardial perfusion , cardiac function , or prognosis are inconclusive .
outcome	The mechanism by which TMLR relieves angina is not yet known .
outcome	Early evidence regarding TMLR suggests it will be useful for treating patients with end-stage coronary artery disease .
outcome	Definitive recommendations await critical analysis of the results of ongoing randomized clinical trials , post-market surveillance studies , and third-party payer acceptance .

###15746593
background	This article addresses measures of importance to women of reproductive age in the first National Healthcare Quality Report ( NHQR ) and National Healthcare Disparities Report ( NHDR ) .
other	The authors review each of the 4 components of quality of care effectiveness , safety , timeliness , and patient centeredness .
other	The effectiveness component topics with relevance to women of childbearing age include breast cancer , cervical cancer , HIV , AIDS , mental health , and maternity care .
other	The safety component includes 3 relevant measures of obstetric trauma .
other	The quality aspects of timeliness of care and patient centeredness will be discussed in terms of women , although the NHQR and NHDR did not include them as a separate topic because the data were so limited regarding women .
outcome	There is a foundation of knowledge about many aspects of quality health care for women of reproductive age .
outcome	However , gaps are evident in some measures , usually due to insufficient data .
outcome	Further development of the measure set would benefit from additional process and outcome variables that can link screening , diagnosis , and treatment with health outcomes .
outcome	Such linkages will expand our knowledge and capability to improve health outcomes for women of reproductive age .

###10080570
background	This study tested the hypothesis that female subjects may exhibit a higher prevalence than male subjects of depression associated with somatic symptoms but not a higher prevalence of depression not associated with these other symptoms .
population	The author reanalyzed research interview data on major depression from the National Comorbidity Survey , dividing respondents into those who met overall criteria for major depression and exhibited fatigue and appetite and sleep disturbance ( `` somatic d
outcome	Female subjects exhibited a higher prevalence than male subjects of somatic depression but not a higher prevalence of pure depression .
outcome	Somatic depression was associated with a high prevalence of anxiety disorder and , among female subjects , with body aches and onset of depression during early adolescence .
outcome	The gender difference in depression may result from a difference in a specific subtype of anxious somatic depression .

###15945300
background	The aim of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the tolerability , safety and efficacy of antialdosterone therapy in patients with heart failure admitted to our ambulatory from June 1995 to September 2003 .
population	One hundred and fifty-seven consecutive patients ( mean age 64 + / - 11.6 years ) were enrolled in the study ; they were in NYHA class I-IV , on ACE-inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker therapy , and were treated with canrenone if they were in NYHA class I -
other	The mean follow-up was 38.7 + / - 21.2 months .
intervention	Patients were divided into two groups according to either therapy ( group 1 : 124 patients , 79 % , on antialdosterone therapy ; group 2 : 33 patients , 21 % , on no antialdosterone therapy ) or ischemic and non-ischemic etiology ( group A : 71 patients , 45.2 % , and gr
other	Serum creatinine and plasma potassium levels , left ventricular ejection fraction , NYHA class , adverse effects , and mortality were evaluated .
outcome	The mean dose of canrenone was 37 + / - 19.9 mg/day .
outcome	Creatinine levels did not change significantly whereas potassium levels slightly increased in group 1 vs group 2 ( p < 0.01 ) and in group A vs group B ( p < 0.01 ) .
outcome	Treatment was discontinued by only 12 patients ( 8.1 % ) due to hyperkalemia in 8 cases ( 6.5 % ) , gynecomastia in 2 cases ( 1.6 % ) , urticaria in 1 case ( 0.8 % ) , and nausea in 1 case ( 0.8 % ) .
outcome	Left ventricular ejection fraction increased in all groups ( p < 0.001 ) with the exception of the subgroup B/group 2 ( p = NS ) .
outcome	The NYHA class improved significantly in group 1 ( p < 0.01 ) .
outcome	The total mortality rate was 10.8 % ( 17 cases ) , of which 10.5 % ( 13 cases ) in group 1 and 12.1 % ( 4 cases ) in group 2 and due to sudden death in 3 group 1 patients ( 2.4 % ) and in 2 group 2 patients ( 6 % ) .
outcome	This study shows a good tolerability , safety , and efficacy , and poor adverse effects of canrenone therapy in combination with ACE-inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers and beta-blockers in patients with chronic heart failure .
outcome	Therapy should be monitored by serial clinical and laboratory controls and gradually titrated up to the maximal tolerated dosage .

###15948458
background	The symptoms associated with lumbar spinal stenosis can decrease quality of life and may cause patients to seek treatment .
background	Except in rare cases of rapid neurologic progression or cauda equina syndrome , nonsurgical modalities should be the initial treatment choice .
background	Activity modification , a variety of medications , epidural steroid injections , and other methods are recommended for pain reduction .
background	A formal physical therapy program , which focuses on flexion-based exercises , may lead to improved patientfunction .
background	symptoms .
background	Adequate decompression of the neural elements and maintenance of bony stability are necessary for a good surgical outcome for patients with spinal stenosis .
background	Laminectomy has long been the method of choice for thorough lumbar decompression .
background	Preserving at least the lateral half of the facet joints bilaterally and bone in the area of the pars interarticularis minimizes the potential for iatrogenic instability .
background	Numerous other decompression techniques have been described , including multilevel laminotomies , fenestration , distraction laminoplasty , and microscopic decompression .
background	Arthrodesis , either with or without instrumentation , is also indicated in some patients .
outcome	Several studies report that surgical treatment produces better outcomes than nonsurgical treatment in the short term ; however , the results tend to deteriorate with time .
outcome	Lumbar decompressive surgery can be complicated by epidural hematoma , deep venous thrombosis , dural tear , infection , nerve root injury , and recurrence of symptoms .

###6356896
background	The Secretary of Health and Human Services denies Medicare reimbursement for certain indirect costs associated with health care delivery .
background	This Note reviews arguments supporting and opposing reimbursement of costs that providers incur in three common financial transactions : the use of equity capital , acquisition of providers , and loan financing .
background	The Note considers the Secretary 's regulations in light of the congressional mandate to encourage efficient delivery of health care and concludes that current reimbursement policy promotes inefficiency .

###17341051
background	Effective management of neuropathic pain is one of the more challenging endeavors for even the most experienced and skilled pain specialist .
background	Pharmacological therapy is frequently ineffective and/or poorly tolerated , especially in elderly patients .
background	Many if not most surgical procedures have yielded limited success in the treatment of these pain conditions .
background	Motor cortex stimulation ( MCS ) has emerged as a promising technique for the management of pain in patients with difficult neuropathic and central pain conditions .
background	Although MCS has proven most successful for patients with trigeminal neuropathic/deafferentation pain and central poststroke pain , other conditions are now emerging as potential targets for this therapy .
outcome	Based on previous as well as ongoing work , it would appear that the future of MCS is indeed bright .
outcome	Hopefully , as work continues in this area , investigators will be able to develop a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying this modality and be able to further refine the technique of MCS .
outcome	It is also possible that with the use of noninvasive tools such as transcranial magnetic stimulation , practitioners will be able to predict with accuracy which patients are likely to respond favorably to MCS .

###15473411
background	Patients with refractory angina are not candidates for revascularization and have both class III or IV angina and objective evidence of ischemia despite optimal medical therapy .
background	An estimated 300,000 to 900,000 patients in the United States have refractory angina , and 25,000 to 75,000 new cases are diagnosed each year .
background	This review focuses on treatment strategies for refractory angina and includes the mechanism of action and clinical trial data for each strategy .
intervention	The pharmacological agents that have been used are ranolazine , ivabradine , nicorandil , L-arginine , testosterone , and estrogen ; currently , only L-arginine , testosterone , and estrogen are approved by the Food and Drug Administration .
outcome	Results with the noninvasive treatments of enhanced external counterpulsation and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation are provided .
outcome	Invasive treatment strategies including spinal cord stimulation , transmyocardial revascularization , percutaneous myocardial revascularization , and gene therapy are also reviewed .

###18494629
background	Foot ulcers are a common complication in patients with diabetes .
background	Negative pressure wound therapy ( NPWT ) is a wound care therapy that is being increasingly used in the management of foot ulcers .
other	This article presents a systematic review examining the effectiveness of this therapy .
other	The review question is how effective is NPWT in achieving wound healing in diabetes foot ulcers ?
other	The primary outcome for this study was the number of patients achieving complete wound healing ( secondary outcomes , other markers of wound healing , adverse events and patient satisfaction ) .
study design	A systematic literature review and tabulative synthesis of randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) .
other	The review identified four RCTs of weak to moderate quality .
outcome	Only one study examining NPWT in postamputation wound healing reported data on the primary outcome .
outcome	These data show a 20 % improvement in wound healing [ odds ratios = 2.0 % , confidence interval ( CI ) -1.0 to 4.0 ] and number needed to treat = 6 ( CI 4-64 ) .
outcome	No serious treatment-related complications were reported by any of the studies .
outcome	One study suggested a reduction in the risk of secondary amputation ( absolute risk reduction = 7.9 % , CI 0.5-15 .43 ) .
outcome	Studies also reported an increase in granulation and wound-healing rates in patients treated with NPWT therapy .
outcome	No data on patient satisfaction or experience were reported .
outcome	While all the studies included in the review indicated that the NPWT therapy is more effective than conventional dressings , the quality of the studies were weak and the nature of the inquiries in terms of outcome and patient selection divergent .
outcome	There is a strong need for larger trials to assess NPWT therapy in diabetes care with different groups of patients and in relation to different clinical objectives and parameters .

###8591067
background	Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) impacts metabolic function and deranges various hormonal axes .
background	Previous studies characterizing thyroid hormones in SCI reported depressed triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and thyroxin ( T4 ) , primarily in acute tetraplegics .
background	These studies cited an 11-13 percent incidence of low T3 syndrome ( LT3S ) in SCI patients , with an increased incidence in tetraplegics ( 20-36 percent ) .
background	The purpose of this study was to evaluate thyroid function and determine the incidence and clinical relevance of LT3S in the chronic SCI population .
population	Thyroid function tests were performed on 30 chronic SCI patients ( 14 tetraplegics and 16 paraplegics ) and 30 age - and gender-matched controls .
outcome	Mean T3 and T4 levels were significantly depressed in SCI patients relative to controls , while T3 resin uptake ( T3RU ) values were significantly elevated .
outcome	LT3S only occurred in the SCI population with an incidence of 23.3 percent .
outcome	SCI patients with LT3S did not differ significantly from those without in the level or completeness of injury , age or the interval since injury .
outcome	When SCI patients with normal T3 were compared with controls , they still had depressed mean T3 levels .
outcome	We conclude that LT3S occurs frequently in the chronic SCI population and suggest that depressed serum T3 levels may predispose SCI patients to sick euthyroidism in the face of minor pathologic insult .

###16185123
background	Morbid obesity is increasingly recognized in children and adolescents .
background	The National Institute of Health Consensus Conference has concluded that bariatric surgery is the only consistent effective method for achieving long-term weight loss .
outcome	Advantages of the laparoscopic approach , which include decreased hospital stay and morbidity , have been demonstrated in randomized controlled studies .
intervention	Herein , we describe our technique of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass .

###18564886
background	Our purpose in this cross-sectional study with 1,598 adult clients who had intellectual disabilities was to obtain valid prevalences of sensory impairments and to identify associations .
intervention	The diagnoses were made through ophthalmologic and audiometric assessments , applying WHO/IASSID definitions .
outcome	Re-weighted prevalences were 5.0 % ( 95 % CI 3.9 - 6.2 % ) for the total adult population ; 2.9 % ( 1.9-4 .1 ) , less than 50 years ; and 11.0 % ( 7.9 - 14.7 ) , 50 years and over .
outcome	Apart from being 50 years of age and over , p = .000 , risk factors were more severe intellectual disability , p = .0001 , and Down syndrome , p = .001 .
outcome	Results show that the risk of combined sensory impairment in this population is considerably increased compared with the general population .
outcome	Part of the underlying conditions are treatable or can be rehabilitated .
outcome	However , the complete diagnosis had been identified in only 12 % .

###16648330
background	The purpose of this study was to examine symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) in a community sample of low-income pregnant women who met the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for the disorder .
population	Pregnant women ( N = 948 ) were screened for trauma , PTSD , depression , and co-occurring illicit substance use .
other	PTSD symptoms were compared in traumatized pregnant women and a sample of nonpregnant traumatized women from the National Comorbidity Survey .
outcome	Suicidal thoughts and a high degree of psychiatric comorbidity were common in pregnant women with PTSD .
outcome	Pregnant women were selectively and significantly less likely to endorse reexperiencing symptoms of PTSD ( 29.5 % , N = 82 ) , compared to nonpregnant women ( 79.4 % , N = 464 ) .
outcome	PTSD in pregnancy was associated with comorbidity , poor health behaviors , and lower recall of memory-related PTSD symptoms .
outcome	Further prospective study is needed .

###8169923
background	To examine the relationship between oral contraceptive ( OC ) use and bone mineral density ( BMD ) , we conducted a cross-sectional study on 352 white , nonsmoking , perimenopausal women aged 40-54 years .
other	We measured bone mineral density of lumbar vertebrae 2-4 with dual photon absorptiometry and mid-radius and distal radius with single photon absorptiometry .
outcome	After controlling for age , body mass , current physical activity , current calcium intake and history of breastfeeding , our analysis did not find substantial differences in BMD at any site between OC ever users and never users .
outcome	However , OC ever users had slightly higher lumbar BMD among premenopausal women .
outcome	No significant association was identified between recency of OC use and BMD .
outcome	The results of our study suggest that when other factors are accounted for , OC use is not strongly associated with BMD among perimenopausal women , although we can not exclude a slight beneficial effect.This document reports the findings of a cross-sectiona
background	In postmenopausal women the loss of bone density and mass is well documented .
background	This situation , if left unchecked , could lead to osteoporosis , and the financial impact on the U.S. public health system could range from $ 2 to $ 6.1 billion per year .
other	This study controlled for the variables of age , body mass , current physical activity , current calcium intake , and history of breast feeding , all of which affect BMD .
outcome	Of the 352 women in the study , 7 currently used OCs , 92 women had never used OCs , and 253 women were former OC users .
other	These women were subdivided into 2 groups based on OC usage .
other	These were the never users group and the ever users group .
other	Bone mineral density was measured using dual photon absorptionmetry ( Norland Duel 2600 ) on the 2nd , 3rd , and 4th lumbar vertebrae and single photon absorptionmetry on the midradius and distal radius ( 5-mm site ) .
other	Separate analyses were conducted for premenopausal and postmenopausal women .
outcome	It was found that in the premenopausal group , with increasing OC involvement , that the BMD increased slightly but was not considered statistically significant ( P = 0.21 ) .
outcome	After adjusting for the variables of age , breastfeeding , body mass , physical activity , and calcium intake , no dose-effect relationship could be found between premenopausal and postmenopausal women .
outcome	Women considered recent OC users were associated with an increase in BMD , though overall this was not statistically significant .
outcome	The results of this study suggest that when variables are statistically adjusted for OC use is not strongly associated with BMD in perimenopausal women.americasbiologycontraceptioncontraceptive methods -- side effectscontraceptive usagedeveloped countriesfa

###17414485
background	To systematically review studies that examined the effectiveness of wrist guards in preventing wrist injuries among snowboarders .
other	PubMED was searched for the year 2005 to capture any recently published studies not yet indexed in MEDLINE .
other	The reference lists of included studies and conference proceedings were also searched .
population	Studies were included if the number of wrist injuries between wrist guarded and unguarded snowboarders could be ascertained .
other	Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) , cohort studies , and case-control studies were included .
other	Six studies were included .
other	Information regarding study design , patient characteristics , wrist guard characteristics , data source ( for cohort and case-control studies ) , and results ( type and severity of injury , compliance , and adverse events ) were extracted .
other	Data were extracted by one reviewer and checked by a second reviewer .
outcome	Data from RCTs and cohort studies were expressed as relative risks with odds ratios presented for case-control studies .
outcome	The risk of wrist injury ( RR : 0.23 ; 95 % CI : 0.13 , 0.41 ) , wrist fracture ( RR : 0.29 ; 95 % CI : 0.10 , 0.87 ) , and wrist sprain ( RR : 0.17 ; 95 % CI : 0.07 , 0.41 ) was significantly reduced with the use of wrist guards .
outcome	Among the case-control studies , wrist guards significantly lowered the odds of sustaining a wrist injury ( OR : 0.46 ; 95 % CI : 0.35 , 0.62 ) .
outcome	In an RCT , the risk ratio suggested wrist guards protect the shoulder ( RR : 0.22 ; 95 % CI : 0.01 , 4.60 ) .
outcome	Nonexperimental data suggested the possibility that wrist guards may increase the risk of finger and elbow-shoulder injuries .
outcome	Wrist guards reduce the risk of wrist injuries among snowboarders .
outcome	For every 50 snowboarders who were a wrist guard , one wrist injury will be averted .
outcome	Future research should focus on determining the optimal type of wrist guard and if they increase the risk of other upper extremity injuries .

###11860325
background	Diffuse and focal traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) can result in perceptual , cognitive , and motor dysfunction possibly leading to activity limitations in driving .
background	Characteristic dysfunctions for severe diffuse TBI are confronted with function requirements derived from the hierarchical task analysis of driving skill .
background	Specifically , we focus on slow information processing , divided attention , and the development of procedural knowledge .
background	Also the effects of a combination of diffuse and focal dysfunctions , specifically homonymous hemianopia and the dysexecutive syndrome , are discussed .
background	Finally , we turn to problems and challenges with regard to assessment and rehabilitation methods in the areas of driving and fitness to drive .

###15893192
intervention	The goal of this study was to examine whether higher consumption of total linolenic acid was associated with rate-adjusted QT and JT intervals ( QTrr and JTrr , respectively ) .
background	Higher intake of fish omega-3 fatty acids and plant omega-3 such as alpha-linolenic acid is associated with lower risk of myocardial infarction .
background	While long-chain omega-3 can inhibit ventricular arrhythmia , it is not known whether alpha-linolenic acid influences ventricular repolarization .
population	We studied 3,642 subjects from the National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute Family Heart study who were free of myocardial infarction , left ventricular hypertrophy , pacemaker , and with QRS < 120 ms.
other	We used the 95th percentile of the gender-specific distribution of QTrr and JTrr to define abnormally prolonged repolarization .
other	Within each gender , we created age - and energy-adjusted tertiles of linolenic acid and used regression models for analyses .
outcome	Mean age was 50 years , and average intake of total linolenic acid was 0.74 g/day .
outcome	There was an inverse association between consumption of linolenic acid and QTrr and JTrr ( p for trend 0.001 and 0.0005 , respectively ) .
outcome	From the lowest ( reference ) to the highest gender - , age - , and energy-adjusted tertile of linolenic acid , multivariable adjusted odds ratios for prolonged QTrr were 1.0 , 0.74 ( 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] 0.57 to 0.96 ) , and 0.59 ( 95 % CI 0.44 to 0.77 ) , resp
outcome	Corresponding values for JTrr were 1.0 , 0.73 ( 95 % CI 0.52 to 1.03 ) , and 0.59 ( 95 % CI 0.40 to 0.87 ) , respectively ( p for trend 0.009 ) .
outcome	Exclusion of subjects taking drugs known to influence QT did not influence this association .
outcome	Higher intake of dietary linolenic acid might be associated with a reduced risk of abnormally prolonged repolarization in men and women .

###14746657
background	Although antiretrovirals can prolong life , medication adherence also poses a constant challenge for HIV-infected individuals because the success of antiretroviral regimens demands nearly perfect adherence to medications .
background	This paper describes the psychiatric and social barriers to adherence in a convenience sample of HIV-positive clients in methadone treatment in the Bronx , New York .
background	The study sample was part of a national study of HIV treatment adherence and health care utilization among triply diagnosed populations , the HIV/AIDS Treatment Adherence Health Outcomes and Cost Study .
population	The triply diagnosed study sample is defined here as HIV-infected individuals who screened into the study with at least one psychiatric diagnosis in addition to opioid dependence on agonist therapy ( methadone treatment ) and at least one substance use diag
other	Interviewers utilized modified versions of the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders ( SCID-I ) , the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Personality Disorders ( SCID-II ) , and the Addiction Severity Index ( ASI-Lite ) , among a battery of Cost Study instruments .
outcome	Results showed that within this sample , borderline personality disorder was significantly associated with nonadherence to HIV medications .
outcome	A related finding showed a significant relationship between serious social/family problems and nonadherence .
outcome	These findings build on previous research on the impact of psychiatric illness on HIV medication adherence and suggest that psychiatric assessment and treatment options be linked to adherence interventions .

###9744167
background	We have used inexpensive off-the-shelf equipment for store-and-forward teledermatology and compared the precision and accuracy of digital image consultations with conventional , clinic-based consultations .
population	Thirteen lesions were studied on 12 patients referred to a dermatology clinic for a suspected skin cancer .
other	Patients were examined by two dermatologists .
other	Subsequently , digital images were examined by two different dermatologists .
outcome	There was almost complete agreement , both among and between the clinical and digital examiners , on different diagnosis and biopsy recommendations .
outcome	Agreement on the single most likely diagnosis was also good .
outcome	Digital imaging shows promise in teledermatology .

###16309046
background	To find out an effective therapy for obesity induced by antipsychotic agents .
population	One hundred and one cases of obesity who were being treated with antipsychotic agents were randomly divided into an observation group and a control group .
intervention	The observation group were treated with electroacupuncture at Quchi ( LI 11 ) , Zusanli ( ST 36 ) , Fenglong ( ST 40 ) , Shangjuxu ( ST 37 ) and Xiajuxu ( ST 39 ) , once a day for 8 weeks ; and no treatment was given to the control group .
other	The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale ( BPRS ) was used for assessment of therapeutic effect and the Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale ( TESS ) for adverse effects .
outcome	The clinically effective rate of the observation group ( 54.9 % ) was superior to the control group ( 10.0 % ) with a significant difference between the two groups ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	The BPRS score-reducing rate was 24.92 % and 28.62 % in the both groups respectively , and with no adverse effects .
outcome	Electroacupuncture has a good therapeutic effect on obesity induced by antipsychotic agents , and it improves the patient 's compliance with no adverse effect .

###18810577
background	Carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ) is an early marker of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) .
other	This study aimed to evaluate CIMT value for CAD prediction in pre-and postmenopausal women referred for coronary angiography with angina-like symptoms and a positive result of the treadmill test .
population	The study comprised 321 women referred for coronary angiography with symptoms suggesting CAD .
other	Carotid intima-media thickness was measured in common , bifurcation , and internal carotid artery , and expressed as the mean maximum value .
outcome	Coronary angiography showed coronary stenosis > / = 50 % in 211 ( 65.7 % ) women , including 27 with regular menses ( 47.3 + / - 3.4 years ) and 184 postmenopausal ( 65.8 + / - 7.2 years ) .
outcome	Normal coronary arteries were found in 110 women : 17 ( 47.3 + / - 4.9 years ) with regular menses and 93 postmenopausal ( 64.3 + / - 6.5 years ) .
outcome	The highest CIMT values were found in postmenopausal CAD women ( 1.360 + / - 0.32 mm ) , as compared to premenopausal with CAD ( 1.178 + / - 0.36 mm , P = 0.005 ) , pre - ( 0.860 + / - 0.23 mm , P < 0.001 ) and postmenopausal ( 1.022 + / - 0.30 mm , P < 0.001 ) women with
outcome	Carotid intima-media thickness ( P < 0.001 ) , hyperlipidemia ( P = 0.018 ) , and myocardial infarction ( P < 0.001 ) , but not menopause itself or the number of years since menses cessation , were found to be independent CAD predictors .
outcome	By receiver operating characteristic calculation , the mean maximum CIMT cut-off values discriminating CAD were lower in premenopausal ( > / = 0.933 mm ) than in postmenopausal women ( > / = 1.075 mm ; P < 0.05 ) resulting in similar sensitivity ( 85.2 % and 8
outcome	Carotid intima-media thickness is a strong CAD predictor in both pre-and postmenopausal women , in contrast to the menopausal status .

###16857765
background	Prenatal long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( LCPUFAs ) and trans-fatty acids may affect neurodevelopment .
background	In healthy term children , we determined relationships between relative fatty acid contents of umbilical arteries and veins and neurodevelopment at 18 mo. .
population	The study comprised a mixed group of 317 breast-fed , formula-fed , and LCPUFA formula-fed children .
other	Study endpoints were the Hempel neurologic examination resulting in a neurologic classification and neurologic optimality score ( NOS ) , and the Bayley Psychomotor Developmental Index ( PDI ) and Mental Developmental Index ( MDI ) .
outcome	Fifteen children showed minor neurologic dysfunction ( MND ) .
outcome	The umbilical vein trans , trans-18 :2 n-6 content was higher in children with MND than in the normal group .
outcome	The NOS was significantly reduced in infants with an umbilical vein docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) content within the lowest quartile .
outcome	Umbilical vein arachidonic acid ( AA ) was related to NOS in univariate statistics but not in multivariate analyses .
outcome	The sum of trans-fatty acids and that of C18 trans-fatty acids showed a negative association with NOS in both univariate and multivariate analyses .
outcome	No associations were found between AA , DHA and total trans-fatty acids with PDI or MDI .
outcome	In conclusion , neonates with a relatively low DHA status and those with high trans-fatty acid levels have a less favorable neurologic condition at 18 mo. .

###12451340
background	Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) with clinical onset after 50 years old is unusual and frequently misdiagnosed .
background	Clinical presentation and course seem also to be different that in MS occurring between 20 and 50 years old .
other	The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and paraclinical characteristics of late onset MS.
population	We respectively studied MS patients older than 50 years at the onset of the disease .
other	We evaluated demographical data , clinical symptoms , cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) , visual evoked potentials ( VEPs ) and MRI of these patients .
other	We also studied clinical data during the follow-up with the occurrence of new symptoms and the evolution of the disease by the index of progression ( EDSS unit per year ) .
outcome	In a population of 1 417 MS , 3.4 p.cent had their first symptoms at 50 years old or older and 0.45 p.cent after 59 years old .
outcome	At the time of the study patients had more frequently a progressive form : 37 p.cent had a primary progressive form and 35 p.cent a secondary progressive MS.
outcome	None of the patients with onset after 60 years old had relapsing remittent MS.
outcome	Motor symptoms were the most common neurologic presentation ( 54 p.cent of patients ) .
outcome	Very few patients had a clinical optic nerve involvement during the follow-up .
outcome	The mean progression index was 1 suggesting a most severe evolution in this subgroup of MS patients .
outcome	76 p.cent of patients had oligoclonal banding detected by CSF electrophoresis .
outcome	The VEPs were abnormal in 81 p. cent of patients tested .
outcome	71 p.cent of the brain MRI were consistent with the diagnosis of MS.
outcome	60 p.cent of patients had spinal cord MRI abnormal .
outcome	This study highlights the differences between the late onset MS and earlier onset .
outcome	As previously reported , our study underlines the high frequency of progressive course , motor function involvement and poor prognosis .

###8455123
background	The goal of the present study was to determine whether dietary supply of omega-3 essential fatty acid ( EFA ) influences visual development in healthy pre-term and full-term infants .
population	Visual status was examined in human milk-fed infants ( ample dietary omega-3 EFA supply ) and corn oil-based formula-fed infants ( no dietary omega-3 EFA ; standard formula prior to 1987 ) .
outcome	At 57 weeks postconception ( 4 months adjusted age ) , both pre-term and full-term human milk-fed infants had significantly better visual evoked potential ( VEP ) and forced-choice preferential-looking ( FPL ) acuity than formula-fed infants .
outcome	Acuity was correlated with a dietary omega-3 sufficiency index from red blood cell membranes obtained at 57 weeks postconception .
outcome	At 36 months , full-term human milk-fed children had significantly better random dot stereo acuity and letter matching ability than formula-fed children .
outcome	Stereo acuity and performance on the letter matching test were correlated with a dietary omega-3 sufficiency index from red blood cell membranes obtained at 4 months .
outcome	These results suggest that dietary omega-3 fatty acids play an important role in visual development .

###3324582
background	E. coli strain SA 189 has been isolated from a calf with E. coli infection .
background	The cultivation of this strain on a solid culture medium has resulted in its dissociation into two variants due to the loss of the capsule by the cells of the initial culture .
background	Both variants of E. coli strain SA 189 ( capsular and acapsular ) are equally sensitive to antibiotics .
background	The capsular variant has a narrower range of sensitivity of colicins and shows greater resistance to the bactericidal action of normal blood serum than the acapsular one .
background	Bacteria belonging to these two variants differ perceptibly in the kinetics of disturbances in the barrier properties of their membrane apparatus under the action of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide , a cation detergent .
background	The conditions permitting the differentiation of the capsular and acapsular forms of E. coli strain SA 189 by the kinetics of the damaging action of this detergent have been experimentally selected .

###16364136
background	There is growing evidence that cyclic alternating pattern ( CAP ) and arousals are woven into the basic mechanisms of sleep regulation .
population	In the present study , the overnight sleep cycles ( SC ) of 20 normal subjects were analyzed according to their stage composition , CAP rate , phase A subtypes and arousals .
other	Individual SC were then divided into 10 normalized temporal epochs .
other	CAP parameters and arousals were measured in each epoch and averaged in relation to the SC order .
outcome	Subtypes A2 and A3 of CAP in non-rapid eye movement ( NREM ) sleep , and arousals , both in REM and NREM sleep when not coincident with a A2 or A3 phases , were lumped together as fast electroencephalographic ( EEG ) activities ( FA ) .
other	Subtypes A1 of CAP , characterized by slow EEG activities ( SA ) , were analyzed separately .
outcome	The time distribution of SA and FA was compared to the mathematical model of normal sleep structure including functions representing the homeostatic process S , the circadian process C , the ultradian process generating NREM/REM cycles and the slow wave act
outcome	The relationship between SA and FA and the sleep-model components was evaluated by multiple regression analysis in which SA and FA were considered as dependent variables while the covariates were the process S , process C , SWA , REM-on and REM-off activitie
outcome	Regression was highly significant ( P < 0.0001 ) for both SA and FA .
outcome	SA were prevalent in the first three SC , and exhibited single or multiple peaks immediately before and in the final part of deep sleep ( stages 3 + 4 ) .
outcome	The peaks of FA were delayed and prevailed during the pre-REM periods of light sleep ( stages 1 + 2 ) and during REM sleep .
outcome	SA showed an exponential decline across the successive SC , according to the homeostatic process .
outcome	In contrast , the distribution of FA was not influenced by the order of SC , with periodic peaks of FA occurring before the onset of REM sleep , in accordance with the REM-on switch .
outcome	The dynamics of CAP and arousals during sleep can be viewed as an intermediate level between cellular activities and macroscale EEG phenomena as they reflect the decay of the homeostatic process and the interaction between REM-off and REM-on mechanisms wh

###17132408
background	The authors investigated the weight loss and maintenance in type 2 diabetic obese patients undergoing biliopancreatic diversion ( BPD ) .
population	Two series of diabetic and non-diabetic obese patients matched for gender , age and baseline body mass index ( BMI ) were evaluated prior to BPD , on the occasion of the regular follow-up visit at 1 , 2 and 3 years following the operation , and at the fifth pos
other	At each follow-up point , body weight ( BW ) , BMI , and serum glucose concentration were measured .
outcome	In all type 2 diabetic patients , the serum glucose level fell to within the normal range at the first postoperative year and remained within normal limits without any medication throughout all the follow-up period .
outcome	In preoperatively diabetic subjects , mean values of BW and BMI were closely similar to those of non-diabetic subjects at all follow-up points , and the stabilization weight was independently related to age and to initial BW values .
outcome	In obese patients with type 2 diabetes , the glucose level steadily normalized in every case following BPD , and values remained unchanged throughout the follow-up period .
outcome	After the operation , the type 2 diabetic obese patients experienced the same stable weight reduction as their non-diabetic counterparts .

###8735663
background	Substantial psychological and neurobehavioural evidence is available to support the hypothesis that traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a risk factor for subsequent psychiatric disorders .
background	However , studies utilizing established psychiatric diagnostic schemes to study these outcomes after TBI are scarce , and no studies have included an assessment of personality disorders in addition to the major psychiatric disorders .
population	This study utilizes structured psychiatric interviews to measure the prevalence of DSM-III ( R ) disorders in a sample of 18 subjects derived from a TBI rehabilitation programme .
outcome	Results revealed high rates for major depression , bipolar affective disorder , generalized anxiety disorder , borderline and avoidant personality disorders .
outcome	Co-morbidity was also high .
outcome	A preliminary study of postulated predictive factors revealed possible roles for sex and for initial severity of injury .
outcome	The study supports the association between TBI and psychiatric disorder , and suggests the need for monitoring , for prevention , and for treatment of psychiatric disorders after TBI .

###15135699
background	Clinically unrecognized intravascular volume overload may contribute to worsening symptoms and disease progression in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) .
population	The present study was undertaken to prospectively compare measured blood volume status ( determined by radiolabeled albumin technique ) with clinical and hemodynamic characteristics and patient outcomes in 43 nonedematous ambulatory patients with CHF .
outcome	Blood volume analysis demonstrated that 2 subjects ( 5 % ) were hypovolemic ( mean deviation from normal values -20 + / - 6 % ) , 13 subjects ( 30 % ) were normovolemic ( mean deviation from normal values -1 + / - 1 % ) , and 28 subjects ( 65 % ) were hypervolemic ( mean devia
outcome	Physical findings of congestion were infrequent and not associated with blood volume status .
outcome	Increased blood volume was associated with increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( p = 0.01 ) and greatly increased risk of death or urgent cardiac transplantation during a median follow-up of 719 days ( 1-year event rate 39 % vs 0 % , p < 0.01 by log -
outcome	Systolic blood pressure was significantly lower in hypervolemic patients than in those with normovolemia or hypovolemia ( 107 + / - 2 vs 119 + / - 2 mm Hg , p = 0.008 ) , and hypotension was independently associated with increased risk of hypervolemia in multivar
outcome	These findings demonstrate that clinically unrecognized hypervolemia is frequently present in nonedematous patients with CHF and is associated with increased cardiac filling pressures and worse patient outcomes .

###16125372
background	The metabolic syndrome ( MS ) is highly prevalent among patients with schizophrenia ( current estimates 35-40 % ) , yet no data exist on the correlation of this diagnosis with illness severity , neurocognitive or quality of life measures in this population .
other	Using baseline data from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness ( CATIE ) Schizophrenia Trial , assignment of MS status was performed using an updated definition derived from the National Cholesterol Education Program ( NCEP ) criteria .
population	Those with and without MS were compared on the basis of primary and secondary variables of interest from baseline data encompassing psychiatric , neurocognitive and quality of life measures .
outcome	Of 1460 subjects enrolled at baseline , MS status could be reliably assigned for 1231 subjects , with a prevalence of 35.8 % using the NCEP derived criteria .
outcome	After adjustment for age , gender , race , ethnicity and site variance , those with MS rated themselves significantly lower on physical health by SF-12 ( p < .001 ) , and scored higher on somatic preoccupation ( PANSS item G1 ) ( p = .03 ) .
outcome	There were no significant differences between the two cohorts on measures of symptom severity , depression , quality of life , neurocognition , or self-rated mental health .
outcome	Neither years of antipsychotic exposure nor alcohol usage were significant predictors of MS status when adjusted for age , gender , race , and ethnicity .
outcome	The metabolic syndrome is highly prevalent in this large cohort of schizophrenia patients and is strongly associated with a poor self-rating of physical health and increased somatic preoccupation .
outcome	These results underscore the need for mental health practitioners to take an active role in the health monitoring of patients with schizophrenia to minimize the impact of medical comorbidity on long-term mortality and on daily functioning .
outcome	Outcomes data from CATIE will provide important information on the metabolic and clinical impact of antipsychotic treatment for those subjects with MS and other medical comorbidities .

###7596504
background	Percutaneous radiofrequency neurotomy has been used in the treatment of pain from the cervical zygapophysial joints , but the results have been modest and not compelling .
background	Several factors might account for its apparent poor success rate , including inadequate patient selection , inaccurate surgical anatomy , and technical errors .
background	In an effort to overcome these confounders , we used comparative local anesthetic blocks to preoperatively , definitively diagnose cervical zygapophysial joint pain and developed an amended operative technique based on formal anatomical studies .
population	An audit was conducted of our experience with 19 patients to determine whether there was sufficient merit in the amended procedure to justify a randomized , double-blind , controlled trial .
other	The duration of complete pain relief was the principal outcome measure .
other	Side effects and complications were also monitored .
outcome	Of the 10 patients who underwent third occipital neurotomy for the treatment of C2-C3 zygapophysial joint pain , only 4 obtained long-lasting relief .
outcome	The other six patients reported an early return of their pain and constituted technical failures ; the third occipital nerve was inadequately coagulated and recovered in the immediate postoperative period .
outcome	Of the 10 patients who underwent lower cervical medial branch neurotomy , 7 obtained complete pain relief for clinically useful periods and were able to resume their activities of daily living and employment .
outcome	After procedures at all levels , a brief period of postoperative pain was experienced by the patients and ataxia was a side effect of third occipital neurotomy .
outcome	There were no cases of postoperative infection or anesthesia dolorosa .
outcome	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###17245171
background	Comparison of effectiveness between the pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy ( `` pylorus-preserving Whipple '' [ PPW ] ) and the classic Whipple ( CW ) procedure .
study design	A systematic literature search ( Medline , Embase , Cochrane Library , Biosis , Science Citation Index , Ovid Journals ) was performed to identify all eligible articles .
population	Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) comparing PPW versus CW for periampullary and pancreatic carcinoma were eligible for inclusion .
other	The methodologic quality of included studies was evaluated independently by 2 authors .
other	Quantitative data on perioperative parameters ( blood loss , transfusion , operation time , and length of hospital stay ) , mortality , morbidity , and survival were extracted from included studies for meta-analysis .
other	Pooled estimates of overall treatment effect were calculated using a random effects model .
outcome	In total , 1235 abstracts were retrieved and checked for eligibility and 6 RCTs finally included .
outcome	The critical appraisal revealed vast heterogeneity with respect to methodologic quality and outcome parameters .
outcome	The comparison of overall in-hospital mortality ( odds ratio , 0.49 ; 95 % CI , 0.17 to 1.40 ; P = 0.18 ) , morbidity ( odds ratio 0.89 ; 95 % CI , 0.48 to 1.62 ; P = 0.69 ) , and survival ( hazard ratio , 0.74 ; 95 % CI , 0.52 to 1.07 ; P = 0.11 ) showed no significant differ
outcome	However , operating time ( weighted mean difference , -68.26 minutes ; 95 % CI , -105.70 to -30.83 ; P = 0.0004 ) , and intraoperative blood loss ( weighted mean difference , -766 mL ; 95 % CI , -965.26 to -566.74 ; P = 0.00001 ) were significantly reduced in the PPW gro
outcome	Hence , in the absence of relevant differences in mortality , morbidity , and survival , the PPW seems to be as effective as the CW .
outcome	Given obvious clinical and methodological interstudy heterogeneity , efforts should be intensified in the future to perform high quality RCTs of complex surgical interventions on the basis of well defined outcome parameters .

###17452124
background	To develop a reliable , objective and sensitive measure of axial trunk rotations in PD , which can be applied in an ambulatory setting .
intervention	To quantify turning motion , two angular velocity transducers attached to the lower back measured angular velocity of the trunk in the yaw plane ( i.e. , around the longitudinal axis ) and the roll plane ( i.e. , medio-lateral movements ) in freely moving subjec
outcome	Turn duration was longer in PD patients compared to controls .
outcome	Peak yaw and peak roll angular velocities were lower in PD patients compared to controls during all turning tasks .
outcome	This new approach to measure trunk sway during a simple turning task might serve as an instrument to objectively quantify turning while walking in PD .
outcome	It proves difficult to objectively assess turning performance based upon history taking or clinical examination alone .
outcome	Objective and easy measurement of axial turning in PD might be used for clinical evaluation , but also in a domestic setting as outcome measure in intervention studies .
outcome	Further research should focus on the clinical relevance of the new quantitative approach described in this paper , e.g. , to detect freezing of gait episodes .

###12802919
background	The effect of poor blood stem cells mobilization on the outcome of autologous stem cell transplantation ( ASCT ) has not been well studied .
background	Our aim is to evaluate poor mobilization as a prognostic factor in lymphoma patients undergoing ASCT .
population	We analyzed 90 consecutive patients with Hodgkin 's ( HD ) and non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma ( NHL ) who underwent ASCT .
other	Poor mobilization was defined as the inability to obtain > or = 1 x 10 ( 6 ) CD34 + cells/kg ideal body weight with two large volume aphereses .
other	Patients were divided into 2 groups group 1 = poor mobilizers , and group 2 = good mobilizers .
outcome	The poor mobilizers received lower median transplant CD34 + cell dose ( 2 x 10 ( 6 ) vs. 4.5 x 10 ( 6 ) / kg for good mobilizers , P = 0.001 ) , were more heavily pretreated ( P = 0.01 ) , and required higher number of aphereses for PBSC collection ( P = 0.0006 ) .
outcome	The median progression-free survival ( PFS ) in groups 1 and 2 was 10 and 41 months ( P = 0.04 ) , while the median overall survival ( OS ) was 38 months and not reached ( P = 0.02 ) , respectively .
outcome	Univariate analysis showed that > or = 3 pre-transplant treatments , CD34 + cell dose < or = 2 x 10 ( 6 ) , elevated LDH before transplant , and poor mobilization were significant prognostic factors for poor PFS , while only the first three were significant fo
outcome	Multivariate analysis using these same four factors revealed that number of pre-transplant treatments ( HR = 6.03 , P = 0.001 ) , CD34 + cell dose ( HR = 0.1 , P = 0.0007 ) were the only independent predictive factors for worse overall outcome .
outcome	In conclusion , our data show that poor mobilization could indicate poor outcome in lymphoma patients undergoing ASCT , however , it is more likely to be a reflection of the heavy pre-transplant therapy and lower CD34 + cell dose re-infused in this group of p

###12780497
background	To study the attitudes and beliefs towards general practice of rural secondary school students , in particular , their perception of the barriers to the effective delivery of primary health care .
other	Students attending a government-funded secondary school in a rural community of less than 4000 people .
population	250 students in years 7-12 were surveyed , with 177 ( 71 % ) replying , 45 % of these being male .
study design	Cross-sectional , self-administered questionnaire survey .
outcome	The study found that most students value general practitioners ( GPs ) as valuable sources of health care , feel they have reasonable access to care and in most instances appear to attend appropriately for their health problems .
outcome	Most felt their doctor would be an empathetic listener , would provide sufficient time to provide effective care and communicated in a language they could understand .
outcome	Confidentiality issues were considered important , especially by females .
outcome	Although students have very positive attitudes about general practice , the findings could be used to improve a number of GP services for young people in small rural communities .
outcome	This is particularly so for presentations which require a high degree of confidentiality and skillful counselling , such as psychological problems and risk-taking behaviours .

###14527962
background	The purpose of this study was to determine whether the proportion of skeletal muscle in the fat-free soft tissue mass ( FFST ) is the same in men with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and able-bodied controls .
other	Skeletal muscle mass and FFST of the midthigh were determined by using magnetic resonance imaging and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry , respectively , in men with long-term ( > 2 yr ) complete SCI ( n = 8 ) and able-bodied controls of similar age , height , and weight ( n = 8 ) .
outcome	Muscle mass ( 1.36 + / - 0.77 vs. 2.44 + / - 0.47 kg ) and FFST ( 1.70 + / - 0.94 vs. 2.73 + / - 0.80 kg ) were lower in the SCI group than in the controls ( P < 0.05 ) , but the lower ratio of muscle to FFST in the SCI group ( 0.80 + / - 0.09 vs. 0.91 + / - 0.10 , P <
outcome	This notion was supported by analysis of covariance , in that the mean muscle adjusted to the mean FFST of the groups combined was lower in the SCI group .
outcome	Despite the lower proportion of muscle in the FFST of the SCI group , the relation between muscle and FFST was strong in the SCI group ( r = 0.99 ) and controls ( r = 0.96 ) .
outcome	The findings suggest a disproportionate loss of muscle in the paralyzed thighs after SCI relative to other nonfat constituents , which may be accurately estimated in men with long-term SCI by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry if the lower proportion of musc

###11441927
background	This report by The Swedish Council on Technology Assessment in Health Care ( SBU ) reviews , classifies , and grades the scientific literature on cancer chemotherapy in some major tumour types , describes the practice of chemotherapy in Sweden , compares practi
background	The report is intended primarily for decision-makers at various levels , both practitioners and administrators .
background	It is also of interest for the medical profession .
other	The extensive body of scientific literature was reviewed according to strict criteria that reflected the scientific weight of the literature .
study design	Sixteen experts representing different disciplines ( oncology , surgery , internal medicine , health economy and quality of life research ) participated in the literature review .
other	Each section was discussed within the project group and was reviewed by at least one , but usually two international researchers .
other	Additional input was provided by national experts representing different scientific disciplines .
other	For the final evaluation to be as close to the objective truth as possible , a concerted effort was made to guarantee objectivity and thorough assessment of current knowledge about the effects of chemotherapy on the selected cancers .
other	The tumour types selected for this assessment include firstly those types where three investigations had shown an increased use of chemotherapy in Sweden during the latest decade .
population	These were non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , gastric cancer , pancreatic cancer , colorectal cancer and urinary bladder cancer .
population	Secondly , the two tumour types comprising the greatest number of patients treated with chemotherapy in Sweden , breast cancer and haematological malignancies , were included .
other	Among the haematological malignancies , the most prevalent ones , acute myeloid leukaemia ( AML ) , chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( CLL ) , Hodgkin 's disease ( HD ) , aggressive non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma ( NHL ) of the large B-cell type and indolent NHL of follicular type were evaluated .
other	These constitute about 75 % , of all haematological malignancies .
population	Thirdly , ovarian cancer was included since chemotherapy has been extensively used and since , at the time of the planning of this overview , a group of very expensive drugs , the taxanes , had preliminarily shown promising results .
other	A wealth of scientific literature has been published on cancer therapy .
other	The review presented in this report is limited to scientific studies judged to be important for evaluating chemotherapy efficacy .
other	Assessments of the content and quality of these studies , and a critical summary of the results in all stages of the selected tumours , have never before been attempted in this way .
other	However , similar comprehensive overviews of certain stages of the tumours have previously been made .
other	These overviews were also critically evaluated .
other	Totally 1,496 studies involving 558,743 patients were reviewed .
intervention	The survey of practice of chemotherapy use involved all departments of surgery , urology , gynaecology , internal medicine including haematologic units , pulmonary medicine and general and gynaecologic oncology at 16 hospitals in two health care regions in Sw
other	During the 4 weeks of the survey , all patients with the diagnoses concerned who received chemotherapy were registered .
other	The study included 1,590 patients .
other	The working group 's general conclusions are summarised in the following points
outcome	The literature on the effects of chemotherapy is extensive .
outcome	Chemotherapy has a well-documented role in the curative and palliative treatment of patients with several types of cancer .
other	The use of chemotherapy is of utmost importance for the possibility of cure in certain tumour types .
outcome	In other tumours , chemotherapy increases the possibility of cure when added to local and regional treatments , particularly surgery .
outcome	In the instances of no possibility of cure , chemotherapy may to a variable extent improve both patient survival and well-being .
outcome	In Sweden chemotherapy is largely used in accordance with that documented in the scientific literature .
outcome	The extent of both over - and under-treatment seems to be limited but can not be excluded at the individual patient level .
outcome	The literature-based knowledge is scientifically of lower quality in the most chemotherapy sensitive tumours than in tumours showing more limited sensitivity .
outcome	In the more sensitive tumours , positive effects on a symptomatic stage and survival were seen several decades ago .
outcome	In those days , clinical treatment studies did not fulfil the current high quality requirements .
outcome	Small life-prolonging effects of chemotherapy are sometimes very well documented in large , high quality scientific studies .

###15867987
background	To evaluate the Quality of Life ( QoL ) among siblings of autistic patients .
population	Casuistic : siblings of autistic patients ( n = 31 ) and , as a control group , siblings of patients with speech disorder ( n = 30 ) .
other	Inclusion criteria age between 7 and 11 years old ; absence of current mental disorder ; regular attendance to school .
other	Exclusion criteria antecedents of clinical or psychiatric diseases ; disabilities ( visual , auditive or motor ) ; antecedents of cognitive and/or intelligence disabilities .
other	Instruments included a questionnaire which evaluated the quality of life in a subjective way .
outcome	it was observed worse QoL among siblings of autistic patients ( p = 0.000 ) .
outcome	The hypothesis that the quality of life was compromised in children ( aged 7 to 11 ) by the presence of an autistic sibling was confirmed , and was worse than that of siblings of children with speech disorders .

###16596794
background	Cannabis has been known as a medicine for several thousand years across many cultures .
background	It reached a position of prominence within Western medicine in the nineteenth century but became mired in disrepute and legal controls early in the twentieth century .
background	Despite unremitting world-wide suppression , recreational cannabis exploded into popular culture in the 1960s and has remained easily obtainable on the black market in most countries ever since .
background	This ready availability has allowed many thousands of patients to rediscover the apparent power of the drug to alleviate symptoms of some of the most cruel and refractory diseases known to humankind .
background	Pioneering clinical research in the last quarter of the twentieth century has given some support to these anecdotal reports , but the methodological challenges to human research involving a pariah drug are formidable .
background	Studies have tended to be small , imperfectly controlled , and have often incorporated unsatisfactory synthetic cannabinoid analogues or smoked herbal material of uncertain composition and irregular bioavailability .
background	As a result , the scientific evaluation of medicinal cannabis in humans is still in its infancy .
background	New possibilities in human research have been opened up by the discovery of the endocannabinoid system , a rapidly expanding knowledge of cannabinoid pharmacology , and a more sympathetic political environment in several countries .
background	More and more scientists and clinicians are becoming interested in exploring the potential of cannabis-based medicines .
background	Future targets will extend beyond symptom relief into disease modification , and already cannabinoids seem to offer particular promise in the treatment of certain inflammatory and neurodegenerative conditions .
background	This chapter will begin with an outline of the development and current status of legal controls pertaining to cannabis , following which the existing human research will be reviewed .
background	Some key safety issues will then be considered , and the chapter will conclude with some suggestions as to future directions for human research .

###18071934
background	Relief of chronic pain over the lateral aspect of the leg through decompression of the superficial peroneal nerve where it emerges from the deep fascia of the leg .
other	Chronic pain over the lateral side ( lower quarter ) of the leg and the dorsum of the ankle exaggerated by activities of daily living and sports ; sometimes sensory abnormality or decreased sensibility in the distribution of the nerve over the dorsum of the foot .
other	Presence of a positive Tinel-Hoffmann sign at the site of compression .
other	Occasional pain or absence of chronic pain .
other	Before starting spinal anesthesia , the site of nerve compression has to be identified ( Tinel-Hoffmann sign ) and marked .
intervention	Supine position , internal rotation of the affected leg .
intervention	Thigh tourniquet .
intervention	Longitudinal skin incision over the lateral aspect of the leg 1 cm posterior to the site of compression .
intervention	The nerve is released by local fasciotomy where it emerges through the deep fascia .
intervention	Release of the tourniquet and careful hemostasis .
other	No suture of the fascia .
intervention	Subcutaneous and skin suture .
intervention	Sterile compressive dressing .
outcome	Between November 1998 and April 2003 , a decompression of the superficial peroneal nerve was performed in twelve legs of twelve patients ( seven men and five women , average age 40 years [ 18-50 years ] ) .
outcome	Follow-up after an average of 48 months ( 12-84 months ) based on subjective and clinical evaluation .
outcome	The clinical examination consisted of the search for Tinel-Hoffmann sign and subjective assessment on a questionnaire .
outcome	Postoperatively , at clinical examination no entrapment sign was found in any patient .
outcome	The subjective rating was excellent in eight patients and good in four .
outcome	It had always improved when compared with the preoperative situation .
outcome	All patients would accept the surgery again for an identical condition .

###7121939
background	A distinct clinical syndrome of severe buttock pain radiating down the posterior surface of the ipsilateral leg and subsequent inability to ambulate has recently been recognized .
background	The syndrome may develop in the parturient following a paracervical block .
population	This study analyzes 4 cases from the authors ' institution and reviews 2 cases from the literature .
outcome	Onset of the syndrome ranges from 12 hours to 10 days but progressive improvement and complete recovery are the rule .
outcome	The cause is believed to be secondary to direct trauma or hematoma formation in the area of the sacral plexus .
outcome	Pelvic induration or a mass in the sacroiliac area may be noted bur abscess formation is not associated .
outcome	Prevention is difficult but early recognition will facilitate treatment , which is mostly symptomatic .

###17253086
background	Patients with increased daytime sleepiness are impaired in all areas of their social environment .
background	Expert opinions are recommended for pension proceedings , regarding driving licenses as well as for restrictions at the workplace .
background	All possibilities should be considered in the differential diagnosis of sleep disorders , which have to be treated before an expert opinion is submitted .
background	Statutory regulations on evaluation of sleepiness are contained in the guidelines for assessing a patient 's fitness to drive .
background	The importance of daytime sleepiness in other occupations should be assessed according to the respective workplace .
background	The patient should be informed of the appraisal with regard to career choice and workplace design .
background	The expert thus has the responsible task of carrying out interdisciplinary differential diagnosis of pathological sleepiness and monitoring treatment success with appropriate test methods .
background	In the present paper the legal guidelines in Germany and available test methods are presented .

###19268050
background	PURPOSE OF THE STUDY The surgical treatment of osteoporotic vertebral body fractures is associated with many complications .
background	Vertebroplasty ( VP ) and kyphoplasty ( KP ) are minimally invasive procedures allowing us to strengthen the vertebral body and thus stabilize it .
background	The aim of this non-randomized study is to evaluate a group of patients treated by VP and KP procedures and to discuss related risks .
population	MATERIAL Between September 2005 and October 2007 , a total of 32 patients ( 37 vertebrae ) were treated by the VP and KP techniques .
intervention	Vertebroplasty was used in 21 and kyphoplasty in 11 patients .
other	In this initial group , four patients were excluded from evaluation because of a tumour aetiology of the fracture .
other	The remaining 28 patients who had an osteoporotic vertebral body fracture verified by CT scan findings were followed up and evaluated .
other	METHODS The evaluation was based on modified Oswestry disability index ( ODI ) and visual analogue scale ( VAS ) scores recorded at 6 weeks , 3 and 6 months and 1 year postoperatively .
other	Cement leakage detected by X-ray was assessed by means of the classification used by Yeom et al. and , at the same time , the occurrence of adjacent vertebral fracture , if any , was detected by 1 year after surgery .
outcome	RESULTS Radiographic cement leakage was found in eight patients ( 21.6 % ) , with clinical manifestation in two ( 5.4 % ) .
outcome	One had an incomplete motor lesion due to cement leakage into the spinal column , and the other had pulmonary embolism due to cement leakage into the mediastinum .
outcome	The whole group showed marked improvement in clinical condition , as assessed by the ODI .
outcome	When expressed as per cent , the average ODI was 57 % pre - and 15.7 % post-operatively .
outcome	All patients reported pain relief in the affected spine .
outcome	The average VAS score of 8.1 pre-operatively decreased to an average of 2.6 post-operatively .
outcome	There were no radiographic findings of adjacent vertebral body fracture .
outcome	DISCUSSION Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are currently used to treat osteoporotic vertebral fracture .
outcome	Their advantages include an immediate stabilization of the vertebra by cement solidification , possibility of percutaneous application under local anaesthesia , and early patient mobilization without any external fixation .
outcome	However , when evaluating these techniques , safety of the surgical procedure should be taken into consideration .
outcome	The most frequent risk is cement leakage .
outcome	CONCLUSIONS Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty can , under strict adherence to the operative protocol , be an effective approach to the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral body fracture .
outcome	It permits early mobilization of the patient without the necessity of external fixation .

###9411863
background	There is an increasing interest in using deoxypyridinoline ( D-Pyd ) ( Pyrilinks-D ) and bone specific alkaline phosphatase ( BAP ) ( Alkphase-B ) or osteocalcin tests for detecting and monitoring risk persons for osteoporosis .
background	Bone specificity is high , and the possibilities of detecting high bone turnover and fast bone losers in postmenopausal women is good , especially in women between 55 and 65 years of age .
background	The tests are also useful for monitoring therapy , evaluating drug effectiveness and detecting poor compliance .
background	The deoxypyridinoline ( D-Pyd ) - test must show a repeated high value prior to treatment ( 2 to 3 times over a period of one month ) , to allow for day to day variations .
background	Because of the day to day variations in women 's estrogen production ( perimenopausal and early postmenopausal women ) , false low values may also be encountered .
background	The use of `` bone markers '' to detect and treat fast bone losers could probably lead to considerable savings in the health budget and improvement in the quality of life for women worldwide .

###1758620
background	The possibility of the formation under chronic experimental conditions of a reaction of a selective character to species-specific acoustic signals ( SAS ) of the agonistic type , presented to cats against the background of subthreshold electrical stimulation
outcome	Reactions appropriate to the SAS presented appeared only in those animals in which threshold electrical stimulation evoked directed aggressive reactions .
outcome	Partial bilateral ablation of the sensorimotor region of the cortex ( SMC ) did not influence the selective character of the reaction to the SAS , but led to a change by comparison with the preoperative period in the relationship of the motoric and acoustic

###12150695
background	Early diagnosis and therapy of the underlying insulin resistance of heritable polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) , often manifested at menarche , facilitate the reduction and/or reversal of the reproductive and metabolic morbidity of PCOS , as well as reduce t
background	PCOS is characterised by oligoamenorrhoea , clinical and biochemical hyperandrogenism , infertility , recurrent miscarriage , insulin resistance , hyperinsulinaemia , gestational diabetes , impaired glucose tolerance , Type 2 diabetes , morbid obesity , hypertensio
background	Insulin sensitising-lowering agents reduce insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia , reverse PCOS endocrinopathy and ameliorate the reproductive , metabolic and cardiovascular morbidity of the disorder .
background	The largest literature on the subject discusses metformin .
outcome	Improved pregnancy outcomes in women with PCOS receiving metformin may be attributed to its ability to reduce insulin resistance , hyperinsulinaemia and hypofibrinolytic plasminogen activator inhibitor activity by the enhancement of folliculogenesis and im

###11421469
background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) constitutes an important public health problem in Italy , evidenced by the high number of hospital admissions each year .
background	Significant inter-hospital as well as interward differences in mortality rates for CHF patients that have been described may , in part , be explained by the differences in the severity of the illness of admitted patients .
population	The goal of this study was to predict 30-day severity-adjusted mortality risk in patients with CHF admitted to wards of a teaching hospital in Siena , Italy , in 1997 .
other	A 30-day mortality was determined by linking hospital discharge files with the Tuscany Mortality Registry database .
intervention	The 3M all patient refined diagnosis related group ( APR-DRG ) software was used as a risk assessment method .
outcome	The relationships between death and the following variables were studied by univariate analyses : APR-severity risk , APR-mortality risk , age , sex , length of stay and , discharge ward .
outcome	Multivariate analysis was also performed to verify the associations between death and those parameters found to be significant by univariate analysis .
outcome	Unadjusted mortality proportions ranged from 4.3 to 44.0 % .
outcome	Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that APR-mortality risk , length of stay , and discharge ward were significantly and independently associated with 30-day mortality risk in patients with CHF .
outcome	In summary , 30-day mortality risk varied significantly according to the ward of discharge in an Italian teaching hospital , even after adjustment for severity of illness .

###16896638
background	Cementoplasty , performed either as percutaneous vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty , has become well established as an effective technique to treat painful vertebral body fractures .
background	It has low complication rates , is successful in alleviating pain , and improves the patients ' mobility and quality of life .
background	A series of questions remain open though or are the subject of controversial debate ; for example , the results of several biomechanical studies are in part contradictory .
background	Clinical data on subsequent fractures are also still inadequate , although the majority of studies show no elevated rate of subsequent fractures following treatment with cementoplasty in comparison to the natural course in patients with osteoporotic fractu
outcome	Biomechanical considerations on whether restoration of the vertebral body 's normal shape could reduce the rate of subsequent fractures still need scientific substantiation.Both surgical methods are employed in our clinic .
outcome	Kyphoplasty seems to us to be indicated when the height of the anterior portion of the vertebral body is reduced by one-third compared to the norm or a kyphosis angle of more than 15-20 degrees is present .
outcome	The goals of therapy are restoring the shape and reducing the kyphosis angle .
outcome	This can only succeed , however , in fractures that are not older than 3 weeks .
outcome	In all other cases vertebroplasty is performed .

###15765443
background	We sought to determine the components of irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) clinical trials that correlate with higher levels of placebo response .
population	We performed a systematic review of placebo-controlled trials in patients with IBS to assess which variables correlate with a higher placebo response .
other	Placebo responses for global symptom improvement and for decreased abdominal pain were assessed .
other	Univariate and multiple linear regression analyses were conducted .
outcome	Higher rates of global improvement correlated with frequency of administration of study intervention ( r = .31 , P = .03 ) , duration of the study ( r = .28 , P = .04 ) , and overall treatment effect of the active agent being studied ( r = .33 , P = .02 ) .
outcome	Higher rates of decreased abdominal pain correlated with the frequency of intervention ( r = .39 , P = .02 ) and overall treatment effect ( r = .40 , P = .01 ) , whereas lower placebo response rates correlated with year of the study ( r = -.36 , P = .03 ) , media
outcome	On multivariate analysis , global improvement in the placebo group was associated significantly with intervention frequency ( P = .0079 ) , overall treatment response ( P = .0031 ) , and parallel study design ( P = .0044 ) .
outcome	Decreased abdominal pain was associated significantly with frequency of intervention ( P = .0061 ) and overall treatment response ( P = .0128 ) .
outcome	In IBS studies , higher placebo response rates correlated with frequency of the intervention and with overall treatment effect of the active agent being studied .
outcome	In designing IBS trials , it may be possible to minimize placebo response by less frequent dosing .
outcome	In treating patients with IBS , it may be possible to harness the placebo response and maximize therapeutic response rates by more frequent dosing .

###15551183
background	The aim of this prospective study is to evaluate the efficacy of a less invasive approach for the operative treatment of lumbar canal stenosis .
intervention	Using transmuscular dilatation this technique minimises surgical trauma .
other	Through a working channel with a 11 mm outer diameter and under operative microscope guidance , decompression of the neural elements can be achieved .
population	From November 1998 to December 2001 38 consecutive patients with a mean age of 73.2 years were operated upon using this technique .
other	The study included 56 lumbar segments .
other	The mean follow up was 32 ( 18-55 ) months .
other	The Visual Analogue Scale ( VAS ) for back and leg pain together with the Oxford Claudication Score ( OCS ) were used to assess the functional results .
outcome	The average operating time for one level decompression was 74 minutes and the average blood loss was 32 ml/patient .
outcome	Two patients ( 5.2 % ) required revision by open surgery .
outcome	The OCS improved from 29.4 preoperatively to 16.9 postoperatively ( p < 0.001 ) .
outcome	VAS for back pain and leg pain also showed a significant improvement ( p < 0.001 ) .
outcome	This less invasive approach is effective in decompressing lumbar canal stenosis .
outcome	It has the advantage of early mobilisation and a short hospital stay , especially in elderly patients ( mean age here : 73.2 years ) .

###10408282
background	Spinal cord stimulation ( SCS ) improves microcirculatory blood flow , relieves ischemic pain and reduces amputation rate in patients with severe peripheral arterial occlusive disease .
other	To evaluate the transcutaneous oxygen tension ( TcPO2 ) measurements as a specific prognostic parameter in the prediction for permanent device implantation in a prospective controlled study in patients with lower limb ischemia .
population	45 patients ( 35 men , 10 women ; mean age 65 years , range : 46-70 years ) were submitted to implantation of a spinal cord electrical generator for rest pain , trophic lesions dry gangrene in severe lower limb ischemia , after failed conservative or surgical tre
other	The clinical status was classified as Fontaine 's stages III and IV and the main pathology was essentially due to atherosclerosis and diabetic vascular disease .
other	Pedal transcutaneous oxygen tension ( TcPO2 ) , ankle and toe pressure Doppler measurements were performed before , 2 weeks and 4 weeks after implantation .
outcome	After 18 months follow-up , pain relief was > 75 % and limb salvage was achieved in 26 patients .
outcome	In 9 patients , a partial success with pain relief > 50 % and limb salvage was obtained for at least 6 months .
outcome	In 10 patients , the method failed , and the patients ' limbs were amputated .
other	TcPO2 was assessed on the dorsum of the foot .
outcome	Clinical improvement and SCS success was associated with an increase of TcPO2 , within the first 2 weeks after implantation ( temporary period ) .
outcome	Limb salvage was achieved in those patients who presented significant TcPO2 increase within the first 2 weeks of the testing period ( from 21.6 mmHg to 29.5 mmHg in the patients with rest pain , P = 0.035 , from 15.2 mmHg to 21.1 mmHg , P = 0.035 in those wit
outcome	TcPO2 changes were related to the presence of adequate paresthesias and warmth in the painful area during the trial period .
outcome	The systolic ankle/brachial blood pressure index did not change under stimulation .
outcome	In patients with failed conservative and surgical treatment for severe critical lower limb ischemia , the SCS increases the skin blood flow , is associated with a significant pain relief and could prove an excellent alternative therapy that improves the qua
outcome	We also demonstrate that TcPO2 increase within a test period of 2 weeks , is a predictive index of SCS therapy success and should be considered in terms of cost effect before the final decision for permanent implantation .

###9892053
background	The main objective of this study was to compare a `` traditional '' test of memory , the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised ( WMS-R ; Wechsler , 1987 ) with a behavioral evaluation test , the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test ( RBMT ; Wilson , Cockburn , & Bad
population	Eighty volunteers participated in the study and were divided into four groups : 20 older adults with memory problems , 20 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy , 20 patients with Alzheimer ' s disease , and 20 controls .
other	A Spanish translation and adaptation of the WMS-R and a Spanish version of the RBMT were used .
outcome	The results indicated that the RBMT was as robust as the WMS-R in differential discrimination of patients .

###10400131
background	To evaluate changes in autonomic nervous system controls in response to obstructive events in future victims of sudden infant death syndrome ( SIDS ) , we studied the polysomnographic sleep recordings of 18 future SIDS infants and those of 36 matched control
other	A heart rate autoregressive power spectral analysis was performed preceding and after the obstructive apneas .
other	The low-frequency to high-frequency power ratio was computed to evaluate sympathovagal balance .
outcome	Future SIDS victims had significantly more obstructive apneas ( p = 0.001 ) and mixed apneas ( p = 0.005 ) than control infants .
outcome	Obstructive events occurred mainly during rapid eye movement sleep in the two populations ( 84.5 % in future SIDS victims and 95.8 % in control infants ; p = NS ) .
outcome	Comparing heart rate power spectral analysis before and after obstructive apneas in rapid eye movement sleep , high-frequency power values were significantly lower and low-frequency to high-frequency power ratios higher in future SIDS victims than in contr
outcome	Compared with preapnea values , low-frequency to high-frequency power ratios significantly decreased after obstructive apneas in control infants ( p < 0.001 ) but not in the future SIDS victims .
outcome	When the obstructive apneas were divided according to duration , the findings were seen mainly for long apneas .
outcome	In conclusion , future SIDS victims were characterized by different autonomic status and responses to obstructive apneas during sleep .
outcome	These findings could be relevant to mechanisms implicated in some cases of SIDS .

###10641499
background	A 56-year-old man presented with intermittent rectal bleeding of six months ' duration .
background	Colonoscopy revealed three left colon polyps , one of which harbored adenocarcinoma .
intervention	Endoscopic mucosal resection ( band-assisted colonoscopic polypectomy ) was successful .
outcome	Endoscopic ultrasonography did not demonstrate any local or regional spread ; however , abdominal computed tomography ( CT ) scan raised suspicion of an isolated metastasis to the liver .
background	The patient 's mother had recently died from metastatic colorectal cancer .
background	When presented with the options of no surgery , postendoscopic mucosal resection , and CT-directed needle biopsy of the suspected isolated metastasis to the liver versus segmental resection of the flat adenoma site and wedge resection of the liver lesion fo
outcome	Histopathology revealed no evidence of malignancy in the rectosigmoid colon , pericolonic lymph , or liver specimen .
outcome	Awareness of increased risk of early cancer in flat adenomas with central depression is important because prompt recognition can lead to curative therapy .

###6119503
background	Aseptic techniques used together with chlorhexidine reduced the infection rate and prevented cross-infection in patients undergoing urinary-tract catheterisation .
background	Infection of the bladder appears to have arisen by contamination of the catheter-meatal junction , at which site antiseptic prophylaxis in the presence of bathing was ineffective .
outcome	Patients having short-term catheterisation should not be placed in baths , since wetting the perineum will contaminate the urethral meatus with mixed enterobacteria , predisposing the female patient in particular to infection .

###16398947
background	The increasing life expectancy after spinal cord injury has given social participation a new recognition as one of the ultimate goals of a comprehensive rehabilitation process .
background	Recent evolution of the concept suggests 2 different approaches to document participation after spinal cord injury and a careful appraisal of the related outcome measures is important as discrepancies of results between the 2 approaches can be significant
background	Literature on objective participation reports a large variability in several dimensions that are particularly influenced by intrinsic factors such as severity of injury and secondary impairments .
background	The direct influence of the environmental factors remains to be demonstrated by empirical studies .
background	There are fewer tools available to evaluate subjective impressions of participation but recent investigations support the importance of taking account of the person 's perceived restrictions participation in order to get better understandings of an individ
background	The aim of this article is to present the evolution of the conceptualization and measurement of the two approaches and to describe the level of participation of individuals with SCI .

###12428895
background	Medically impairing injuries among medical personnel ( n = 209 ) were analyzed based on data obtained from the Work-Related No-Fault Liability Insurance 's ( TFA ) injury registration system .
background	Almost half ( 98 ; 47 % ) were injured during patient care , of which 29 were injured as a result of physical trauma inflicted by the patient .
background	When moving themselves between the homes of the patients and between different wards , 94 ( 45 % ) were injured ( 18 in vehicle crashes ) .
background	The injuries most often resulting in medical impairment were sprains and/or strains ( 101 ; 48 % ) and fractures ( 67 ; 32 % ) .
other	The injuries primarily affected the upper extremities ( 48 % ) .
background	Fifteen percent had a medical impairment of 10 % or more , and in about half of the cases , the impairment was 1 % to 4 % .
background	Every injured person was on sick leave for 7 months , on average , during the 2-year follow-up period .
background	In 12 % of the cases , the injury led to a disability pension .

###15911739
background	The National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute assembled an ad hoc working group to evaluate opportunities for new major clinical trials in the field of hypertension .
background	The mandate of this working group was to consider the possible designs of major randomized clinical trials focused on clinical outcomes that might merit significant investment by the National Institutes of Health .
background	The group concluded that the ideal pragmatic clinical trial would have a factorial design and include a population at elevated risk of cardiovascular disease events .
background	Subjects would be randomized to a target of systolic blood pressure < 130 versus 130 to 150 mm Hg for adequate separation of means .
background	Initial treatment with thiazide diuretic would be followed by randomization to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker , beta-blocker , calcium channel blocker , or aldosterone antagonist .
background	A third drug could be added according to a protocol .
background	DNA , proteins , and metabolites would be collected in a sample adequate to assess differential impact of treatment on outcome as a function of genotype , proteomic , and metabolomic expression .
background	Subclinical markers and images would also be measured in a sample of patients to develop evidence of ability to predict ultimate effect on clinical outcomes .
background	This ideal trial would take place within a network , funded for at least a decade , aimed at connecting primary care providers with hypertension specialists .
background	Within the network , substudies or independent studies would be coordinated to develop a continuously improving base of knowledge about the effective delivery of hypertension care .

###12527582
background	Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) denotes the presence of metastatic disease and is largely incurable using present-day therapies .
background	Chemotherapy remains a therapeutic option in this patient population , and there are many pertinent issues surrounding its use in patients with stage IV NSCLC .
study design	Eleven questions were framed by the American College of Chest Physicians Lung Cancer Guidelines Committee , and these were addressed by a systematic search of the available literature .
other	The issues addressed included the identification of prognostic factors in selecting patients for chemotherapy and a critical analysis of the survival benefit provided by chemotherapy .
background	Given the development of several new chemotherapy agents over the past decade , the impact that these agents have made was addressed as well as the definition of a standard of care regarding chemotherapeutic regimens .
background	Given the fact that chemotherapy does not represent a curative option , other issues addressed were the optimal duration of treatment as well as its impact on symptom relief and quality of life , the role of second-line therapy , and the outcomes expectation
other	The question of what specialty delivered the chemotherapy also was addressed .
other	Once the data were identified , a critical analysis was undertaken attempting to objectively portray the data in support of answers for each of the questions posed .
outcome	We believe the data support the fact that properly selected patients benefit from chemotherapy with regard to survival and palliation in both first-line and second-line settings .
outcome	It appears that in trials addressing the duration of first-line therapy , this survival and palliative benefit occurs early , and prolonged therapy is not indicated .
outcome	Therapy in this setting is cost-effective , and there are several regimens that can be considered to be `` standard-of-care '' options .
outcome	Physicians involved in the diagnosis of these patients should be aware of the potential benefits of chemotherapy , allowing them to give recommendations to patients that are based on data derived from clinical trials .
outcome	In addition , this awareness will allow them to make referrals , when appropriate , to physicians who are trained in the administration of chemotherapy and the management of patients undergoing such therapy .

###9396451
background	Although several ECG criteria have been described for the differential diagnosis of tachycardias with a wide QRS complex , their applicability in patients with preexisting intraventricular conduction defects ( IVCDs ) has been questioned .
background	The specificity of previously described criteria in this context is unknown .
population	We analyzed prospectively the specificity of the QRS morphological criteria previously described in ECGs during sinus rhythm of 232 patients with IVCD .
outcome	Only 5 of 12 analyzed criteria had a specificity > or = 0.90 among our patients : ( 1 ) a triphasic configuration ( Rsr ' or Rr ' ) QRS complex in V1 in the presence of a right bundle-branch block morphology ( BBBM ) ; ( 2 ) a QS , QR , or R QRS pattern in V6 in the pr
outcome	The following criteria -- QRS duration > 140 ms ; a left axis with right BBBM , right superior axis with right BBBM , monophasic or biphasic R wave in V1 with right BBBM , and a relation R/S < 1 with right BBBM ; an R > 30 ms in lead V1 or V2 with left BBBM ,
outcome	Most of the previously described morphological criteria favoring ventricular tachycardia are present in a substantial percentage of patients with IVCD during sinus rhythm .
outcome	These findings suggest a limited applicability of these criteria in this subset of patients .

###11844254
background	An innovative stenting technique to treat a difficult case of a fusiform aneurysm of the intracranial vertebral artery ( VA ) , with restoration of the vessel lumen , is described .
background	A 58-year-old patient experienced sudden pain in the upper cervical spine , followed by a severe headache .
background	He underwent computed tomographic evaluation , which demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage in the prepontine cistern .
background	A fusiform aneurysm of the distal right VA and critical stenosis of the left VA were detected in digital subtraction angiograms .
background	The patient experienced a new subarachnoid hemorrhaging episode , and urgent endovascular treatment was planned .
intervention	The patient underwent angioplastic and stenting procedures in the left VA , with good results .
intervention	Forty-eight hours later , an endovascular procedure was performed to treat the right VA aneurysm .
intervention	We decided to use a graft stent ( Jostent graft stent ; Jomed , Conroe , TX ) instead of a balloon to preserve the arterial lumen .
outcome	The complete procedure was well tolerated by the patient , and he was discharged , without symptoms , 48 hours later .
outcome	The patient was discharged , without neurological deficits , 48 hours after completion of the endovascular procedure , with clopidogrel ( 75 mg/d ) and aspirin ( 325 mg/d ) therapy .
outcome	This treatment was discontinued after 4 weeks .
outcome	According to our search of the medical literature , this is the first clinical case in which an intracranial fusiform aneurysm was permanently sealed with a graft stent .

###1079261
background	The 14th myelographically demonstrated case of lumbosacral nerve root avulsion is presented with a summary of the previously reported cases .
background	In most cases lumbosacral nerve root avulsion is associated with pelvic fractures and sacroiliac dislocation , which cause a stretching force to be applied to the nerves of the lumbar and sacral plexuses , and in turn to the nerve roots intradurally .
background	This force causes nerve root avulsion in the intradural course of the nerve root .
background	The myelographic defect is a pseudomeningocele or diverticulum-like outpouching created by the tearing of the arachnoid covering of the nerve roots .
background	Myelography clearly indicates nerve root avulsion and surgical exploration is not indicated .

###11111130
background	Incorporation of fish oil into food products provides a means of increasing n-3 fatty acid intake , particularly in populations where fish consumption remains low .
background	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the bioavailability of n-3 PUFA in microencapsulated fish-oil-enriched foods compared with an equal amount of n-3 PUFAs contained in fish oil capsules .
population	Twenty-five healthy female volunteers were randomly assigned to one of two groups for the 4-week intervention : one group received 0.9 g of n-3 PUFA/day as fish oil capsule ( capsule group ) , while the second group ( food group ) received an equal amount of n -
other	Baseline and post-intervention samples were analysed for platelet fatty acid composition .
outcome	There was no significant difference in the change in platelet arachidonic acid ( AA ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) , or docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) between the two groups following the intervention .
outcome	The results indicate that n-3 PUFA from microencapsulated fish-oil-enriched foods are as bioavailable as n-3 PUFA in a capsule .
outcome	Fortification of foods with microencapsulated fish oil , therefore , offers an effective way of increasing n-3 PUFA intakes and status in line with current dietary recommendations .

###6138957
population	30 patients with whiplash injuries were treated with aural-acupuncture .
other	The points were chosen according to a special programme .
outcome	Acupuncture proved an effective form of therapy for treatment of accident patients with whiplash injuries , representing a valuable supplement to the field of rehabilitation .

###10668766
other	( 1 )
background	To determine patterns of intrinsic fluctuations in spasticity , using repeated self-ratings , in subjects with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) ; and ( 2 ) To determine the relation between self-ratings of spasticity using a visual analogue scale ( VAS ) and clinical ra
study design	Part I : observational , prospective cross-sectional study ; part II : experimental , prospective longitudinal study .
other	Outpatient clinic of the Karolinska Hospital , Stockholm , Sweden .
population	Forty-five persons with SCI ( 39 men , 6 women ) ; mean age at injury , 26 yrs ; mean time since injury , 11 yrs .
intervention	Repetitive passive movements of standardized range of motion in three different body positions , performed by two motorized tables .
other	VAS ratings of spasticity , every other hour when awake , and of movement-provoked spasticity , rated before and after each treatment session , and MAS ratings of movement-provoked spasticity , before and after each treatment session .
outcome	The spasticity of cervical SCI subjects fluctuated significantly ( p < .05 ) during the day , unlike the spasticity of thoracic SCI subjects .
outcome	Immediately after intervention with passive movements , spasticity ratings in thoracic motor complete SCI patients decreased by 11 to 14 mm ( 90 % , p < .001 ) as self-rated on VAS and by 1 to 2 grades ( 50 % , p < .001 ) as measured with MAS .
outcome	A 30 % ( p < .018 ) decrease in VAS values of intrinsic pattern of spasticity was maintained over time when treatment was given regularly and was maintained for at least 1 week after discontinuation of treatment .
outcome	VAS ratings correlated significantly with MAS ratings ( r = .44 to .62 , p < .001 ) .
outcome	Repetitive passive movement intervention decreased spasticity when performed regularly , as assessed by VAS and MAS ratings .
outcome	VAS and MAS ratings were significantly correlated .
outcome	It is recommended that SCI patients repeatedly rate their spasticity to establish a baseline before and to track changes after interventions aimed at reducing spasticity .
outcome	The time of day when spasticity is measured seems more important in cervically injured individuals , because of their more pronounced intrinsic fluctuations .

###16036007
background	Eighteen well motivated patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , who had had at least four hospitalizations during the previous two years , were included in a home-based telemedicine study .
intervention	A visiting nurse was equipped with a case containing a laptop computer and a number of medical devices , including an electrocardiogram recorder , spirometer , oximeter and blood pressure monitor .
other	It also contained a videoconference camera , for realtime audiovisual connection with the hospital using the patient 's TV set .
intervention	A single ISDN line ( 128 kbit/s ) was installed in each house before the study began .
outcome	After nine months , there was a decrease in hospitalizations , emergency department visits and use of health services .
outcome	The patient 's disease knowledge and self-management also improved .
outcome	It seems likely that adopting telemedicine in everyday clinical practice could substantially improve the care of chronically ill patients .

###6616112
background	The aim of the study was to explore the way psychiatric symptoms might influence independent psychiatric assessment of outcome one year after stereotactic subcaudate tractotomy .
outcome	In a sample of 34 patients consecutively accepted for psychosurgery the results showed that both ` good ' and ` poor ' outcome groups improved overall .
outcome	No patients were significantly worse and the symptoms which improved most were nervous tension , depressed mood and somatic anxiety .
outcome	It was not possible to identify symptomatic predictors of outcome because the preoperative symptom profiles of both groups were so similar .

###12235255
background	Nootropic drug nefiracetam and related compounds are used in diseases with learning and memory deficits .
background	Recent studies have implicated relationships between learning , memory , and chronic pain .
population	Thus , in the present report , we have studied the effects of nootropic drug nefiracetam on the thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation or streptozotocin treatment in mice .
outcome	In the thermal paw withdrawal test , p.o. , s.c. , i.t. , and i.c.v. administration of nefiracetam dose dependently reversed the thermal hyperalgesia observed in nerve-injured mice .
outcome	Nefiracetam ( p.o. and i.t. ) also significantly reversed the thermal hyperalgesia observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice .
outcome	In the paw pressure test , p.o. and i.t. administration of nefiracetam dose dependently reversed the mechanical hyperalgesia observed in both nerve-injured and diabetic mice .
outcome	In contrast , nefiracetam had no effect in sham-operated or control nondiabetic mice in all paradigms .
outcome	Among other pyrrolidine nootropics ( p.o. ) , aniracetam produced significant analgesic effects .
outcome	Other analogs also had some , but not significant , analgesic effects .
outcome	Finally , nefiracetam ( p.o. ) - induced analgesia in injured mice was not affected by opioid antagonist naloxone ( s.c. , i.t. , and i.c.v. ) but was dose dependently inhibited by nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine ( i.t. and i.c.v. ) .
outcome	The analgesic effect of i.t. nefiracetam was also blocked by i.t. mecamylamine pretreatment .
outcome	Together , these findings suggest that nefiracetam , a new member of the piracetam group of cognition enhancers , could be a good therapeutic tool against neuropathic pain .
outcome	We also demonstrate that nefiracetam-induced analgesic action was nonopioid in nature and was due to stimulation of nicotinic cholinergic system at spinal and supraspinal levels .

###12832597
background	The authors examined the relationship between coping style and perceived quality of life in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus .
population	Diabetic patients ( N = 123 ) and nondiabetic comparison patients ( N = 124 ) treated at a Portuguese health center completed the Nottingham Health Profile , a quality-of-life measure .
other	The diabetic patients also completed the Coping Responses Inventory , a measure of coping styles .
outcome	In both groups , female subjects had poorer quality-of-life ratings than male subjects .
outcome	Diabetic patients were more likely to regard diabetes and the consequent changes in lifestyle as a threat than as a challenge .
outcome	A greater proportion of diabetic patients used avoidance coping styles , which overall were related to worse quality of life , than used active confrontation coping styles .
outcome	Coping style was significantly correlated with several dimensions of quality of life in diabetic patients .

###419395
population	A questionnaire was circulated to the 708 members of the Spinal Cord Injuries Association in 1976 .
outcome	The response rate was 79.5 % .
outcome	Over one half ( 51.4 % ) of the respondents suffered from shoulder pain , an incidence in excess of any age group in a control population derived from a general practitioner 's register .
outcome	The pain , which was related particularly to wheelchair usage and other attendant factors such as transfers , was in some instances clearly in the shoulder , whereas in others it was more likely to be cervical root pain .

###1205462
population	Using chart-review procedures , the authors examined the management of patients with a recognized alcohol problem in 12 medical facilities and 20 alcoholism programs throughout Alaska .
background	The evaluation , which covered a one-year period , focused on the service delivery system rather than on treatment outcome , and sought to determine if problems of alcohol abuse were being solved .
outcome	The authors found that a treatment plan was developed , followed up , and evaluated for 8 per cent of the problem drinkers treated in medical facilities and for 16.7 per cent of those in alcohol programs .

###19674637
background	To present a chiropractic treatment plan for a patient with lumbar disc herniation including radicular symptoms below the knee .
population	A 38-year-old male experienced lumbar disc herniation with radicular symptoms to the lower extremities , below the knee .
other	Etiology of this episode included a traumatic injury which was complicated by chronic degenerative joint and disc changes .
intervention	The treatment regime included chiropractic spinal manipulation , modalities and exercise rehabilitation .
other	Specific rehabilitation exercises were used during various stages of healing in an attempt to stabilize a potential surgical case .
background	Goals of care were to alleviate pain , increase function , and decrease peripheralization related to disc herniation in this case .
outcome	The patient reached a level of functional biomechanical stability over 15 weeks .
outcome	This case demonstrates that with proper management , rehabilitation of a patient with disc herniation can be reached in a short duration of time .

###16019236
background	The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of chronic administration of paroxetine ( selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor : SSRI ) on motor cortex excitability in healthy subjects by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) , functional magn
study design	In a randomized , double-blind , crossover study , twenty-one right-handed subjects received 20 mg daily of either paroxetine or a placebo over a period of 30 days separated by a period of 3 months wash-out .
outcome	The TMS study is presented here correlated with some results of the motor behavior study ( finger tapping test ) and the fMRI study ( primary sensorimotor cortex ( S1M1 ) volume of activation ) .
outcome	TMS was used to test motor threshold ( MT ) , motor evoked potential recruitment curve ( RC ) , cortical silent period ( CSP ) and paired-pulse intracortical inhibition and facilitation ( ICI , ICF ) .
outcome	Chronic administration of paroxetine did not modulate ICI or CSP but induced a significant enhancement of mean ICF ( ANOVA P = 0.04 ) , which significantly correlated with increase of speed in a finger tapping test ( P = 0.02 ) .
outcome	This suggests a modulation of cortical interneuronal excitatory pathways without changes in the excitability of cortical inhibitory GABAergic interneurons .
outcome	A decrease of RC ( ANOVA P = 0.05 ) was also observed after 30 days intake of paroxetine in comparison with placebo and was associated with changes of fMRI activation intensity ( left S1M1 hypoactivation , ) , without changes of S1M1 activation volume .
outcome	Finally , the different modulation of RC and ICF after chronic administration of paroxetine compared to single dose ( opposite effects ) emphasizes the different pharmacological action of the drug at cortical level depending on its acute or long-term adminis

###15672627
background	Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is a devastating condition often affecting young and healthy individuals around the world .
background	This debilitating condition not only creates enormous physical and emotional cost to individuals but also is a significant financial burden to society at large .
background	This review was undertaken to understand the global impact of SCI on society .
background	We also attempted to summarize the worldwide demographics and preventative strategies for SCI in varying economic and climatic environments and to evaluate how cultural and economic differences affect the etiology of SCI .
other	A PUBMED database search was performed in order to identify clinical epidemiological studies of SCI within the last decade .
other	In addition , World Bank and World Health Organization websites were used to obtain demographics , economics , and health statistics of countries of interest .
other	A total of 20 manuscripts were selected from 17 countries .
outcome	We found that SCI varies in etiology , male-to-female ratios , age distributions , and complications in different countries .
outcome	Nations with similar economies tend to have similar features and incidences in all the above categories .
outcome	However , diverse methods of classifying SCI were found , making comparisons difficult .
outcome	Based upon these findings , it is clear that the categorization and evaluation of SCI must be standardized .
outcome	The authors suggest improved methods of reporting in the areas of etiology , neurological classification , and incidence of SCI so that , in the future , more useful global comprehensive studies and comparisons can be undertaken .
outcome	Unified injury prevention programs should be implemented through methods involving the Internet and international organizations , targeting the different etiologies of SCI found in different countries .

###2327893
background	Adult males with and without permanent damage to the spinal cord were contrasted in terms of their sexual responsiveness to erotic stimulation in film , spoken-text , and fantasy modes .
outcome	Among the 16 spinal cord injured ( SCI ) men who were studied , several who had anticipated they would achieve erection failed to do so , whereas others demonstrated penile tumescence during erotic stimulation despite claiming they had lost the capacity for p
outcome	Self-report is thus not a valid index of sexual responsivity following spinal cord injury .
outcome	Levels of tumescence varied across modalities of stimulation in the same manner for SCI and non-SCI men , and within each modality the two groups demonstrated similar rates of buildup of arousal over segments of stimulation .
outcome	The SCI men without erections should not be considered asexual since their subjective arousal paralleled the subjective arousal of the non-SCI men and the SCI men with erections .

###3108215
background	To clarify the relationship between the westernization of dietary habits and the changes of mortality from breast and ovarian cancers in Japan , correlation analyses were performed using data from the Vital Statistics and National Nutritional Survey Report
outcome	With increasing population size of the areas , the age-adjusted death rates ( AADRs ) for both types of cancer increased together with the per capita intakes of fat , animal protein and western-style foods such as butter & margarine , cheese , ham & sau
outcome	The association of the AADRs with the population size was strong after the age group of 45-54 years in breast cancer , and became stronger as the age increased in ovarian cancer .
outcome	The association of the AADRs with western-style foods was also observed in the correlation analyses among the 12 geographical districts in Japan .
outcome	From chronological correlation analyses , the correlation coefficients for some nutrients and foods in breast cancer were highest when the `` time-lag '' between the foods/nutrients intake and the cancer mortality was assumed to be around 10 years .
outcome	The results of the present study suggest that an increase of western-style fat-rich foods such as butter & margarine , cheese , bread and ham & sausage among Japanese might be associated with the recent increase of AADRs for breast cancer and ovaria

###15736913
background	Omega-3 PUFA of marine origin reduce adiposity in animals fed a high-fat diet .
other	Our aim was to learn whether EPA and DHA could limit development of obesity and reduce cellularity of adipose tissue and whether other dietary FA could influence the effect of EPA/DHA .
outcome	Weight gain induced by composite high-fat diet in C57BL/6J mice was limited when the content of EPA/DHA was increased from 1 to 12 % ( wt/wt ) of dietary lipids .
outcome	Accumulation of adipose tissue was reduced , especially of the epididymal fat .
outcome	Low ratio of EPA to DHA promoted the effect .
outcome	A higher dose of EPA/DHA was required to reduce adiposity when admixed to diets that did not promote obesity , the semisynthetic high-fat diets rich in EFA , either alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA , 18:3 n-3 , the precursor of EPA and DHA ) or linoleic ( 18:2 n-6 ) ac
outcome	Quantification of adipose tissue DNA revealed that except for the diet rich in ALA the reduction of epididymal fat was associated with 34-50 % depression of tissue cellularity , similar to the 30 % caloric restriction in the case of the high-fat composite di
outcome	Changes in plasma markers and adipose gene expression indicated improvement of lipid and glucose metabolism due to EPA/DHA even in the context of the diet rich in ALA. .
outcome	Our results document augmentation of the antiadipogenic effect of EPA/DHA during development of obesity and suggest that EPA/DHA could reduce accumulation of body fat by limiting both hypertrophy and hyperplasia of fat cells .
outcome	Increased dietary intake of EPA/DHA may be beneficial regardless of the ALA intake .

###17066330
population	American Indian ( AI ) parents of children involved with child welfare were compared to White , Black and Hispanic parents on mental health and substance abuse problems and access to treatment .
population	Data came from the National Study of Child and Adolescent Well-Being , a longitudinal study of a nationally representative sample of children aged 0-14 years involved with child welfare .
background	Weighted statistics provided population estimates , and multivariate logistic regression was used to predict the likelihood of caregivers receiving mental health or substance abuse services .
outcome	There were significant disparities in the likelihood of receiving mental health , but not substance abuse , services .
outcome	Unmet need for mental health and substance abuse treatment characterized all parents in this study .
outcome	AI parents fared the worst in obtaining mental health treatment .
outcome	Parents of children at home and of older children were less likely to access mental health or substance abuse treatment .

###15343007
background	Although ventilation with small tidal volumes is recommended in patients with established acute lung injury , most others receive highly variable tidal volume aimed in part at normalizing arterial blood gas values .
background	We tested the hypothesis that acute lung injury , which develops after the initiation of mechanical ventilation , is associated with known risk factors for ventilator-induced lung injury such as ventilation with large tidal volume .
study design	Retrospective cohort study .
other	Four intensive care units in a tertiary referral center .
population	Patients who received invasive mechanical ventilation for > or = 48 hrs between January and December 2001 .
other	None .
outcome	The main outcome of interest , acute lung injury , was assessed by independent review of daily digital chest radiographs and arterial blood gases .
outcome	Ventilator settings , hemodynamics , and acute lung injury risk factors were extracted from the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation III database and the patients ' medical records .
outcome	Of 332 patients who did not have acute lung injury from the outset , 80 patients ( 24 % ) developed acute lung injury within the first 5 days of mechanical ventilation .
outcome	When expressed per predicted body weight , women were ventilated with larger tidal volume than men ( mean 11.4 vs. 10.4 mL/kg predicted body weight , p < .001 ) and tended to develop acute lung injury more often ( 29 % vs. 20 % , p = .068 ) .
outcome	In a multivariate analysis , the main risk factors associated with the development of acute lung injury were the use of large tidal volume ( odds ratio 1.3 for each mL above 6 mL/kg predicted body weight , p < .001 ) , transfusion of blood products ( odds rat
outcome	The association between the initial tidal volume and the development of acute lung injury suggests that ventilator-associated lung injury may be an important cause of this syndrome .
outcome	Height and gender should be considered when setting up the ventilator .
outcome	Strong consideration should be given to limiting large tidal volume , not only in patients with established acute lung injury but also in patients at risk for acute lung injury .

###12077636
background	Hemorrhoidal disease is a common pathology in patients with chronic spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
other	We describe our experience with the primary approach to this problem at the Proctology Division of the Sheba Medical Center .
population	We treated 29 patients ( 26 men ) with paraplegia due to SCI between 1995 and 1999 .
other	The mean age was 49 years ( range , 22-74 years ) .
other	All patients had hemorrhoids in stages ranging between II and IV .
other	Main complaints were rectal bleeding ( 83 % ) , difficulties in evacuation ( 38 % ) and discomfort or pain ( 28 % ) .
intervention	Eleven patients ( 38 % ) were treated conservatively ( e. g. diet , hygiene and laxatives ) , while 18 patients ( 62 % ) underwent either banding or sclerotherapy of hemorrhoids or both .
outcome	No major complication were observed .
outcome	In 28 of 29 patients ( 96 % ) , there was a significant reduction or cessation of bleeding and/or relief of symptoms ; one patient ( 3 % ) required hemorrhoidectomy .
outcome	Of the 28 successful treatments , 16 ( 57 % ) had partial reduction of bleeding or relief of symptoms , while in 12 ( 43 % ) response was complete .
outcome	Of those who were treated conservatively , 9 ( 82 % ) had partial and 2 ( 18 % ) had complete relief of symptoms .
outcome	Of those who had banding/sclerotherapy , 7 ( 41 % ) had partial and 10 ( 59 % ) had complete relief .
outcome	We also examined the effect of perianal sensation on the treatment outcome .
outcome	Of 16 patients with complete anesthesia , 11 ( 69 % ) had partial and 5 ( 31 % ) had complete relief , whereas of the 12 patients with preserved sensation , 5 ( 42 % ) had partial and 7 ( 58 % ) had complete relief .
outcome	In conclusion , the approach of banding or sclerotherapy of hemorrhoids in SCI patients is safe and effective .
outcome	When sensation of the perianal region is preserved , the outcome seems to be better .
outcome	The cause of SCI has no impact on the treatment results .
outcome	There was no difference in the outcome of treatment between patients with stage II and stage III hemorrhoids ; patients with stage IV hemorrhoids seem to do worse than those with stages II and III .

###10939298
outcome	We have demonstrated that certain morphological and biochemical changes occur in chronic fatigue syndrome ( CFS ) and in rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) .
outcome	These changes in RA can be explained by the well-established inappropriate increase in free radical generation .
outcome	The similar changes in CFS suggest a similar explanation and a possible role for free radicals in the aetiology of this condition .

###16998144
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a common injury among children .
background	Most TBIs are mild and do not require hospitalization .
background	However , whether or not the patients require acute hospitalization , TBIs may have long-lasting consequences .
background	There is little research on the nutrient needs of these patients , and recommendations are frequently based on data from adults with TBI .
background	It is clear that calorie and protein needs are elevated with acute TBI .
background	However , calorie needs are also decreased by therapies such as sedation , chemical paralysis , and barbiturate coma .
background	Long-term calorie needs may be lower for `` comatose '' patients .
background	Enteral feeding is preferred and possible for patients with TBI , though gastric feeding may be problematic in some patients .
background	In the acute phase , patients with TBI can also have dysregulation of fluid and electrolyte balance , which may require alterations in nutrition care .
background	Dysphagia is common after moderately severe TBI and requires a multidisciplinary approach for treatment .
background	Future opportunities for research on pediatric TBI are numerous and may include ongoing clarification of macronutrient needs , as well as investigation into the roles of specific nutrients such as zinc , antioxidants , and anti-inflammatory compounds .

###17966293
background	An estimated 5.3 million Americans are living with disabilities from traumatic brain injuries .
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) can cause a wide range of functional changes affecting thinking , emotions , and behaviors , or a combination of any of these .
background	Reflecting on a self-care process for patients in TBI home rehabilitation programs becomes critical for nurses who desire to optimize patient functioning .
background	As the young patients ' brain plasticity impacts adjustments to deficits and injury , applying the self-care process in the home setting provides a natural healing environment .
background	As TBI survivors recognize and regulate their own behaviors , application of nursing actions dynamically match this change .

###12519578
background	Multiple sclerosis is a presumed cell-mediated autoimmune disease of the central nervous system .
background	Cyclophosphamide ( CFX ) is a cytotoxic and immunosuppressive agent , used in systemic autoimmune diseases .
background	Controversial results have been reported on its efficacy in MS.
population	We conducted a systematic review of all relevant trials , evaluating the CFX efficacy in patients with progressive MS.
intervention	The main objectives were to determine whether CFX slows the disease progression .
other	Electronic databases ( including MEDLINE , EMBASE , Cochrane Controlled Trials Register ) were systematically searched .
other	References list of retrieved studies and conference abstracts on the main meetings on Multiple Sclerosis were handsearched .
other	Randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) evaluating the clinical effect of CFX treatment in patients affected by clinically definite progressive MS.
other	CFX had to be administered alone or in combination with ACTH or steroids .
other	The comparison group had to be placebo or no treatment or the same co intervention ( ACTH or steroids ) The main outcome criteria were progression of disability ( defined as an increase of 0.5 point in Kurtzke Extended Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) for patients with baseline EDSS > or = 6 and 1 for EDSS < or = 5.5 ) , differences of disability between treatment-control groups and the number of patients with side effects .
other	The identified references were reviewed by two reviewers who independently decided the eligibility of the study , extracted and summarized data and assessed the trial 's quality .
other	The statistical analysis was performed using the Cochrane RevMan software and analyzed using Cochrane MetaView .
outcome	Of the 326 identified references , 80 were selected for full review , only four RCTs were selected for the final analysis .
outcome	Intensive immunosuppression with CFX ( alone or associated with ACTH or prednisone ) in patients with progressive MS compared to placebo or no-treatment ( 152 participants ) did not prevent the long - term ( 12-18-24 months ) risk to evolution to a next step of
outcome	However , the mean change in disability ( final disability subtracted from the baseline ) significantly favoured the treated group at 12 ( effect size - 0.21 ; C. I. - 0.24 , - 0.17 ) and 18 months ( - 0.19 ; C. I. - 0.24 , - 0.14 ) .
outcome	We were not able to verify the efficacy of other schedules .
outcome	Five patients died ; sepsis and amenorrhea frequently occurred in treated patients ( descriptive analysis ) .
outcome	Only limited objectives were reached .
outcome	This review shows a role of CFX in the treatment of progressive MS , but less toxic schedules must be considered , before its use in the clinical practice .

###9822768
background	We report here the first direct functional evidence of an increase in the tonic activation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors by antidepressant treatments .
background	Because 5-HT1A receptor activation hyperpolarizes and inhibits CA3 pyramidal neurons in the dorsal hippocampus , we determined , using in vivo extracellular recording , whether the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 could disinhibit these neuron
outcome	Unexpectedly , no disinhibition could be detected in controls .
outcome	However , after long-term treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine , the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor paroxetine , the reversible monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor befloxatone , the alpha2-adrenergic antagonist mirtazapine , or the 5-HT1A recept
outcome	Such a disinhibition was absent in rats treated with the nonantidepressant drug chlorpromazine , in rats receiving only one ECS , or in rats receiving multiple ECSs in combination with an intrahippocampal pertussis toxin treatment to inactivate Gi/o-coupled
outcome	These data indicate that such antidepressant treatments , acting on entirely different primary targets , might alleviate depression by enhancing the tonic activation of forebrain postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors .

###11430951
background	To examine the association of intrapartum fever with infant morbidity and early neonatal ( 0-6 days ) and infant ( 0-364 days ) death .
population	We carried out a retrospective cohort analysis among singleton live births in the United States for the period 1995-1997 using the National Center for Health Statistics linked birth-infant death cohort data .
outcome	Among the 11,246,042 singleton live births during the study period , intrapartum fever ( at least 38C ) was recorded in 1.6 % .
outcome	Intrapartum fever was associated with early neonatal ( adjusted odds ratio [ OR ] , 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] for preterm and term infants respectively : 1.32 ; 1.11 , 1.56 and 1.67 ; 1.14 , 2.46 ) and infant ( OR , 95 % CI for preterm and term , respectively : 1.31 ;
outcome	Among preterm infants of parous mothers , intrapartum fever was associated with early neonatal ( OR 1.29 , 95 % CI 1.01 , 1.64 ) death .
outcome	In the combined analyses ( infants of nulliparous and parous mothers ) , intrapartum fever was a strong predictor of infection-related death .
outcome	These associations were stronger among term ( OR 3.16 , 95 % CI 1.56 , 6.40 for early neonatal ; OR 1.75 , 95 % CI 1.20 , 2.57 for infant death ) than preterm infants ( OR 1.52 , 95 % CI 1.15 , 2.00 for early neonatal ; OR 1.29 , 95 % CI 1.05 , 1.57 for infant death ) .
outcome	Intrapartum fever was also a risk factor for meconium aspiration syndrome , hyaline membrane disease , neonatal seizures , and assisted ventilation .
outcome	Intrapartum fever is an important predictor of neonatal morbidity and infection-related mortality .

###3533469
population	In a randomized prospective clinical trial in 128 patients undergoing radical surgical resection of primary colorectal cancer , 63 patients received intravenous fluorouracil ( 5-FU ) in two courses , four and eight weeks after surgery ; 65 controls received no
outcome	The duration of follow-up exceeded five years in all cases , and 28 patients have died in each group .
outcome	Recurrent disease was present in 26 5-FU patients ( 41.2 percent ) and in 22 controls ( 33.9 percent ) .
outcome	There is no evidence that short-term 5-FU therapy was of significant value in the chemoprophylaxis of colorectal cancer .

###17140513
background	To evaluate surgical management of the fracture of the ring of axis ( FRA ) , known as `` hangman 's fracture '' , and to discuss adequacy of this treatment .
population	Between 1994 and 2004 , 41 patients with FRA were surgically treated in our hospital.We present a retrospective study of 30 cases treated by anterior cervical fixation and fusion and 11 cases treated by a posterior , CT-guided approach ( published recently ) .
intervention	Our diagnostic algorithm for evaluation of FRA included plain radiographs for basic diagnosis , detailed CT scan , MRI and finally passive lateral flexion-extension fluoroscopy ( performed by physician ) to assess stability.We also consider discography in sel
other	Fractures were classified according to Levine .
intervention	Posterior compressive osteosynthesis according to Judet was performed in 11 patients with Levine type I fractures with fracture fragment distraction > 3 mm .
intervention	Anterior graft and plate fixation was chosen in 30 patients with type II ( 25 patients ) and type I ( 5 patients ) fractures where C2/3 disc injury was confirmed by MRI or discography .
other	There was no case of facet dislocation in our series ( type III ) .
other	Pain , motion restriction and overall satisfaction with neck status were assessed on a scale 1-5 ( 1 = best ) in patients treated with anterior approach .
other	Self-evaluation questionnaires were administered during follow-up ( average , 7.3 years ; 24 months to 11 years ) .
outcome	Anatomically reduced fracture fusion was achieved in all cases ( 100 % ) at one year follow-up .
outcome	Both autologous tricortical ( 22 ) and fibular allografts ( 8 ) were used for anterior approach .
outcome	No perioperative complications occurred and no case was aborted .
outcome	Average hospital stay in patients with standalone FRA was 6.8 days ( 3-15 ) .
outcome	Patients wore Philadelphia collar for 4-6 weeks .
outcome	One patient died during follow up due to unrelated causes .
outcome	None of the 29 patients treated with the anterior approach reported severe or very severe pain ( grades 4 or 5 ) .
outcome	The average pain score was 1.28 .
outcome	Three patients with isolated FRAs reported slight subjective restriction of movement ( grade 2 ) .
outcome	The `` satisfaction with overall neck status '' scale showed an average score of 1.62 , never worse than grade 2 .
outcome	Despite increasing popularity of anterior surgical approach in the treatment of type II FRA , most authors still recommend conservative treatment .
outcome	Surgical treatment is consensually recommended in type III fractures only .
outcome	Type I is treated exclusively conservatively .
outcome	There is currently no evidence-based data supporting any method of treatment of so called `` hangman 's fracture '' .
outcome	The majority of treating surgeons do not consider the status of the intervertebral disc .
outcome	Dynamic films , simulating the peak point of injury , are usually not performed .
outcome	Hence , potentially unstable fractures are overlooked .
outcome	This also explains the lack of long term follow-up data regarding the radiological status of C2/3 intervertebral disc as well as patients ' subjective complaints .
outcome	Surgery provides plausible results .
outcome	Compared to conservative treatment , it can offer significant benefits : 1 ) immediate , better and stable reposition ; 2 ) high fusion rate ; 3 ) shortening of the treatment period with better quality of life .
outcome	Contrary to conservative treatment modalities , surgery possesses a potential for further development .

###11684122
background	We have developed a whole cell enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) that detects the melanoma antigens gp100 and S-100 in tumor samples from patients with metastatic melanoma and the antigen CA 125 in tumor samples from patients with ovarian carcinom
background	The assay is relatively simple to perform and interpret without specialized expertise in pathology .
background	It is both sensitive and selective and is amenable to being automated .
outcome	The results correlate very well with those obtained by flow cytometry and are in good accord with published values obtained by immunohistochemistry .
outcome	We believe that this assay should be very helpful for characterizing autologous cell cancer vaccines and may also represent a useful alternative to immunohistochemistry for cancer diagnosis .
outcome	It should be adaptable to other types of cancer where tumor antigens have been identified and good antibodies are available .

###7640683
background	Global cognitive impairment following traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is common , with some abilities more significantly affected than others .
background	However , due to difficulties in estimating premorbid intelligence , there has been no systematic evaluation of the extent of decline in different cognitive abilities following TBI .
background	Recent studies indicate that the Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised ( WRAT-R ) Reading subtest is an accurate estimate of premorbid intelligence , suggesting that post-TBI cognitive test scores can be compared to the WRAT-R to estimate the extent of decline
population	The current study estimated the extent of deficit in intelligence , memory , attention , speed of processing , and cognitive flexibility for 97 outpatients with TBI .
other	Extent of decline was calculated by subtracting WRAT-R z-scores from cognitive test z-scores to determine a z-difference score ( ZDiff ) for each cognitive ability .
outcome	The results suggest that intelligence is least declined following TBI ( WAIS-R 3-4-point decline ; VIQ ZDiff = -0.23 : FIQ ZDiff = -0.27 ) , followed by attention ( WMS-R 5-point decline ; ZDiff = -0.31 ) , memory ( WMS-R 6-9-point decline ; Verbal Memory ZDiff = -0

###14667870
background	To examine the implantation potential of embryos from assisted reproductive technology cycles with low embryo production and to assess the effects of clinical variables and embryo scores ( ES ) on pregnancy outcome .
study design	Prospective clinical study .
other	Assisted reproductive technology unit in a tertiary medical center .
population	From July 1998 to December 2001 , 280 cycles in 229 infertile couples produced a limited number of one , two , or three embryos 3 days after oocyte retrieval and underwent fresh embryo transfer ( ET ) .
intervention	Embryos with two or more blastomeres were scored and transferred .
other	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE ( S ) ES and implantation rate per ET .
outcome	Of 863 fresh ET cycles during the study period , 32.4 % ( 280 ) were low embryo producers .
outcome	Among them , there were no significant differences in average ES of individual embryos in single , dual , or triple ET or in embryos obtained from patients with low or high E2 responses , or young or old age .
outcome	Embryos derived from conventional IVF had a better ES than those derived from intracytoplasmic sperm injection .
outcome	The clinical pregnancy rate was strongly correlated with the cumulative ES .
outcome	Implantation rates were similar among and between groups , with an average rate of 15.9 % .
other	Embryos of low embryo producers had an inherently low implantation potential that appeared to be unrelated to the number of embryos transferred , female age , ovarian E2 genesis , or fertilization method .
outcome	The cumulative ES can serve as a predictor of pregnancy .

###12130990
background	The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship of patient care variables to survival and functional outcome in the pediatric population with traumatic brain injury .
study design	Retrospective chart review .
other	A 16-bed pediatric critical care unit in an academic community children 's hospital .
population	A total of 320 consecutive pediatric patients with traumatic brain injuries admitted to our pediatric critical care unit between 1992 and 1996 .
intervention	Patients were managed using our standard traumatic brain injury protocol .
other	A total of 230 patient variables encompassing demographic data , prehospital , emergency department , and pediatric critical care unit care were recorded .
outcome	A total of 79 patients were severely injured , with admitting Glasgow Coma Scale scores of < or = 10 .
outcome	There were 18 deaths .
outcome	Only two patients survived without cognition .
outcome	Ninety-five of 302 survivors required inpatient rehabilitation .
outcome	Of these , 73 were old enough to be compared using FIMTM scores .
outcome	At the time of discharge from rehabilitation , 52 patients ( 71 % ) were functioning independently , 20 ( 27 % ) were moderately dependent , and one patient was completely dependent .
outcome	Analysis of variables with respect to survival revealed that an inability to maintain a cerebral perfusion pressure of > or = 50 mm Hg on the first pediatric critical care unit day ( p = .0002 ) and the presence of bradycardia in the emergency department ( p =
outcome	By using the regression equation generated from this model , we could correctly identify survivors and nonsurvivors with a predictive value of 94 % .
outcome	The ability to maintain a cerebral perfusion pressure of > or = 50 mm Hg was the single most important predictor of traumatic brain injury survival in this study .
outcome	This suggests that monitoring and optimizing cerebral perfusion pressure is critical to the management of these patients .
outcome	The relationship between cognitive outcome and therapeutic interventions used to optimize cerebral perfusion pressure is unclear and requires further evaluation in a large prospective study .

###16009053
background	Physical activity is recommended for secondary prevention of several diseases but it is not always clear how reliable the evidence is .
other	We searched MEDLINE and The Cochrane Library for systematic reviews of randomised clinical trials published 1998-2004 .
outcome	We identified 30 eligible systematic reviews and excluded 13 that contained trials covered in larger reviews or were older than other reviews on the same subject .
outcome	Physical activity decreased all-cause mortality in patients with coronary heart disease , odds ratio 0.73 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.54 to 0.98 ) , increased maximum walking time in patients with intermittent claudication by 6.5 min ( 4.4 to 8.7 ) , and decreas
outcome	There were positive effects also in heart failure , chronic obstructive lung disease , type 2 diabetes and fibromyalgia , but they need confirmation in high-quality trials .
outcome	Exercise improved quality of life in several conditions and generally led to improved physical performance .
outcome	An effect was not shown in stroke , asthma , rheumatoid arthritis , acute or chronic low back pain , chronic fatigue syndrome , depression , cystic fibrosis or HIV/AIDS .
outcome	The occurrence of harms was generally not reported .
outcome	Physical activity can have important , and even life-saving , effects as secondary prevention of disease , but more and better trials are needed to fully assess its benefits and harms , in particular trials that compare exercise with drugs .

###11732748
background	Ursodeoxycholic acid possesses choleretic and cytoprotective properties and in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) it is used to treat the hepatobiliary symptoms of the disease .
population	This study investigated the effects of this bile acid on the transport function of the small intestine in normal and CF mice .
other	The effects of ursodeoxycholic acid were monitored as changes in short-circuit current ( SCC ) in stripped sheets of small intestine from normal ( Swiss MF1 ) and transgenic CF ( Cftr ( tm2Cam ) ) mice .
other	In ileal sheets from Swiss MF1 mice , mucosal ursodeoxycholic acid caused a biphasic increase in SCC .
intervention	The first phase was reduced by lowering the mucosal Na + concentration , while the second phase was inhibited by ( Cl - ) - free conditions , serosal furosemide or mucosal diphenylamine-2-carboxylic acid ( DPC ) , suggesting an initial Na + - dependent bile acid absorp
other	Serosal application of ursodeoxycholic acid to the ileum and mucosal or serosal application to the mid-intestine and jejunum elicited a secretory response only .
outcome	Secretion was Ca2 + - dependent , but did not involve neural mechanisms .
outcome	Mucosal mast cells , histamine and serotonin ( 5-HT ) were implicated in the secretory response .
outcome	Responses in tissues from transgenic wild-type mice were similar to those obtained with Swiss MF1 mice , but the secretory response to mucosal or serosal application of the bile acid was impaired in CF tissues .
outcome	In ilea from CF mice the initial absorptive phase of the response to mucosal ursodeoxycholic acid was still observed .
outcome	It is concluded that ursodeoxycholic acid induces secretion throughout the murine small intestine by a mechanism that involves degranulation of mucosal mast cells .
outcome	In the ileum Na + - dependent absorption can also be detected .
outcome	The secretory response is defective in CF intestine , but the absorptive effect is still present .

###11285007
background	Epidemiological studies show a markedly increased risk of cerebral palsy following the combined exposure of infection and birth asphyxia .
background	However , the underlying mechanisms of this increased vulnerability remain unclear .
population	We have examined the effects of a low dose of bacterial endotoxin on hypoxic -- ischaemic injury in the immature brain of rats .
intervention	Bacterial endotoxin ( lipopolysaccharide 0.3 mg/kg ) was administered to 7-day-old rats 4 h prior to unilateral hypoxia -- ischaemia and the neurological outcome was determined 3 days later .
other	Rectal temperature and cerebral blood flow was measured during the study and the expression of CD14 and toll-like receptor-4 mRNA in the brain was examined .
outcome	We found that a low dose of endotoxin dramatically sensitizes the immature brain to injury and induces cerebral infarction in response to short periods of hypoxia -- ischaemia that by themselves caused no or little injury .
outcome	This effect could not be explained by a reduction in cerebral blood flow or hyperthermia .
outcome	In association with the sensitization of injury we found an altered expression of CD14 mRNA and toll-like receptor-4 mRNA in the brain .
outcome	These results suggest that the innate immune system may be involved in the vulnerability of the immature brain following the combination of infection and hypoxia -- ischaemia .

###18049292
background	Obstructive sleep apnea , a common indication for adenotonsillectomy in children , has been linked to behavioral morbidity .
background	We assessed psychiatric diagnoses in children before and after adenotonsillectomy and examined whether baseline sleep apnea predicted improvement after surgery .
population	Subjects of this prospective cohort study were children ages 5.0 to 12.9 years old who had been scheduled for adenotonsillectomy ( n = 79 ) or care for unrelated surgical conditions ( n = 27 , among whom 13 had surgery after baseline assessment ) .
intervention	Before intervention and 1 year later , subjects underwent structured diagnostic interviews and polysomnography .
other	The main outcome measure was frequency of DSM-IV attention and disruptive behavior disorder diagnoses at baseline and follow-up .
outcome	At baseline , attention and disruptive behavior disorders were diagnosed in 36.7 % of adenotonsillectomy subjects and 11.1 % of controls ( p < .05 ) ; attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder was found in 27.8 % and 7.4 % , respectively ( p < .05 ) .
outcome	One year later , group differences were nonsignificant ; attention and disruptive behavior disorders were diagnosed in only 23.1 % ( p < .01 ) , and 50 % of subjects with baseline attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder no longer met diagnostic criteria .
outcome	Obstructive sleep apnea on polysomnography at baseline did not predict concurrent psychiatric morbidity or later improvement .
outcome	Attention and disruptive behavior disorders , diagnosed by DSM-IV criteria , were more common before clinically indicated adenotonsillectomy than 1 year later .
outcome	Surgery may be associated with reduced morbidity , even among subjects lacking polysomnographic evidence of obstructive sleep apnea .

###10229121
background	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF alpha ) is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in inflammatory cascades associated with CNS injury .
population	To examine the role of TNF alpha in the acute pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) , we studied its expression , localization and modulation in a clinically relevant rat model of non-penetrating head trauma .
outcome	TNF alpha levels increased significantly in the injured cortex at 1 and 4 , but not at 12 , 24 or 72 h after severe lateral fluid-percussion trauma ( 2.6-2 .7 atm ) .
outcome	TNF alpha was not elevated after mild injury .
outcome	At 1 and 4 h after severe TBI , marked increases of TNF alpha were localized immunocytochemically to neurons of the injured cerebral cortex .
outcome	A small population of astrocytes , ventricular cells and microvessels , also showed positive TNF alpha staining , but this expression was not injury-dependent .
outcome	Macrophages that were present in a hemorrhagic zone along the external capsule , corpus callosum and alveus hippocampus at 4 h after TBI did not express TNF alpha .
outcome	Intracerebroventricular administration of a selective TNF alpha antagonist -- soluble TNF alpha receptor fusion protein ( sTNFR : Fc ) ( 37.5 microg ) -- at 15 min before and 1 h after TBI , improved performance in a series of standardized motor tasks after injury .
outcome	In contrast , intravenous administration of sTNFR : Fc ( 0.2 , 1 or 5 mg/kg ) at 15 min after trauma did not improve motor outcome .
outcome	Collectively , this evidence suggests that enhanced early neuronal expression of TNF alpha after TBI contributes to subsequent neurological dysfunction .

###8993710
outcome	We have described motor control in people with different degrees of SCI by using surface polyelectromyographic recordings during single - and multijoint volitional motor tasks .
outcome	We have shown that neurobiologic conditions of the injured spinal cord can be expressed in two main categories : `` new anatomy '' and `` reduced anatomy '' .
outcome	The evidence for a variety of definite features of motor control elicited by volitional effort for the performance of a present or even clinically absent motor task suggests that we can benefit from animal experimental neurobiologic studies while we are p
outcome	Reports on the successfully enhanced regenerating capabilities of the axons and improved connectivity within neuronal circuits after SCI encourage us to intensify our efforts in parallel with studies on the recovery processes found in experimentally induc

###10812529
background	The use of antidepressants during pregnancy has undergone considerable scrutiny with respect to safety issues , though limited data with respect to dose management and symptom resolution is available .
background	Previous reports on tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) have demonstrated the need to adjust maternal dose later in pregnancy to maintain therapeutic serum concentrations .
background	However , there is no data on the dosage of selective serotonin uptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) required to maintain symptom resolution in women treated for major depression during pregnancy .
other	The purpose of this study , then , was to assess the medication dosage requirements of SSRIs during this time .
population	In this naturalistic study , pregnant women with a primary diagnosis of major depression were followed prospectively through pregnancy at monthly intervals with symptom assessment .
intervention	Subjects were included in data analysis if they presented prior to 28 weeks gestation , were treated with SSRI monotherapy , received all psychiatric treatment during the pregnancy at the Emory Pregnancy and Postpartum Mood Disorders Program , and achieved e
other	Medication selection was based on personal treatment history or family treatment history ( if any ) , and the published data on SSRIs in pregnancy .
other	All medication dose adjustments were based on depressive symptoms as measured by the BDI and a psychiatric interview ( ZNS ) .
other	Thirty-four pregnant women were included in final analysis .
outcome	Two thirds of the subjects ( n = 22 ) required an increase in their daily dose of medication to maintain euthymia .
outcome	The dose increases occurred at 27.1 + / - 7.1 weeks gestation , with mean BDI scores of 16.4 + / - 9.6 , compared to a mean treatment response BDI of 6.9 + / - 5.4 .
outcome	Subject 's age , education , past personal and familial psychiatric history were not significantly associated with dose adjustment .
outcome	These novel data on SSRI daily dose in pregnancy parallels the extant literature with tricyclic antidepressants ( TCA ) .
outcome	Further work to determine the predictors of dose adjustments will provide guidelines for minimizing fetal exposure to both medication and maternal mental illness .

###11240085
population	The analgesic effect of intrathecal injection of epibatidine , clonidine and neostigmine , compounds that elevate ACh , was examined in the formalin test , a model of post-injury central sensitization in the rat .
other	The compounds were injected alone and in combination .
outcome	Intrathecal injection of epibatidine alone did not alter pain behaviors , compared to vehicle-treated rats .
outcome	Intrathecal injection of clonidine dose-dependently reduced tonic pain behaviors ( ED ( 50 ) + / -95 % confidence limits = 6.7 + / -4.8 microg ) .
outcome	The combination of clonidine and epibatidine ( C : E ) , in the ratio of 26:1 , dose-dependently reduced tonic pain behaviors ; and the ED ( 50 ) of C : E was 1.1 + / -0.98 microg a significant 6-fold leftward shift of the dose response curve , compared with clonidine al
outcome	The antinociceptive effect of C : E ( 26:1 ) was attenuated by pre-treatment with the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine .
outcome	Neostigmine dose-dependently reduced tonic pain behaviors ( ED ( 50 ) = 1.5 + / -1.3 microg ) .
outcome	The combination of neostigmine and epibatidine , in a ratio of 8:1 , significantly shifted the dose response curve 4-fold to the left ( ED ( 50 ) = 0.4 + / -0.3 microg ) .
outcome	The effect is mediated in part by the activation of the nAChR and possibly by the enhanced release of ACh .
outcome	These data demonstrate significant enhancement of the antinociceptive effects of spinally delivered analgesics by a nAChR agonist , suggesting that this class of compounds may have utility as adjuvants when combined with conventional therapeutics .

###18708921
study design	STUDY DESIGN : Case description .
other	To describe a case of traumatic subluxation in association with a congenitally absent cervical pedicle , and review the pertinent medical literature .
background	The congenital absence of a cervical pedicle is a relatively uncommon developmental anomaly that is frequently mistaken for a unilateral facet fracture-dislocation in the context of acute trauma .
background	Because there is little evidence of recovery after surgery , and the symptoms are usually not disabling , surgery is not recommended for most cases .
population	A 62-year-old man presented with severe neck and right shoulder pain after falling .
other	Plain radiographs and computed tomography of the cervical spine showed the typical features of a congenitally absent pedicle at C6 with anterolisthesis of C6 on C7 .
intervention	We performed anterior interbody fusion at C6-C7 because of persistent neck pain and progressive instability .
outcome	Complete restoration of the C6-C7 subluxation was achieved with resolution of the presenting symptoms .
outcome	At 18 months follow-up , flexion and extension dynamic radiographs demonstrated good alignment with solid fusion at C6-C7 .
outcome	Although conservative treatment is the primary treatment for this clinical entity , surgery is an alternative option for those patients who fail to achieve recovery after conservative treatment or exhibit instability .

###7752827
background	In patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) , the addition of coenzyme Q10 to conventional therapy reduces the hospitalization rate for worsening of heart failure and the incidence of serious cardiovascular complications .
background	The present study was planned to assess the hemodynamic mechanisms underlying this phenomenon .
background	Cardiac hemodynamics was evaluated continuously using an ambulatory radionuclide detector ( VEST ) which allows a noninvasive monitoring of left ventricular function .
population	Six patients wit CHF ( mean ejection fraction ( EF ) : 29 % ) clinically documented were studied .
study design	This study was organized as a randomized double-blind , placebo controlled , cross-over trial .
other	The enrolled patients , after a washout period , underwent the first hemodynamic evaluation with VEST .
intervention	Subsequently they were randomized to receive placebo or coenzyme Q10 for 4 weeks .
intervention	At the end of this period they underwent the second VEST study .
intervention	The third VEST study was performed after a further 4-week period with inverted treatment .
other	Cardiac hemodynamics were evaluated during bicycle exercise .
outcome	The EF in control conditions ( CC ) changed from 27 + / - 11 % , at rest , to 24 + / - 8 % , at peak exercise .
outcome	During coenzyme Q10 treatment EF showed a significant increase both at rest ( 33 + / - 13 % , P < 0.05 vs CC ) and at peak exercise ( 30 + / - 12 % , P < 0.05 vs CC ) .
outcome	The same trends were recorded for the stroke volume and the cardiac output .
outcome	Our results demonstrate that coenzyme Q10 improves cardiac hemodynamic response to exercise in patients with CHF and suggest that noninvasive monitoring of left ventricular function allows a more reliable assessment of therapy efficacy .

###9440427
background	Posttraumatic syrinxes may extend many cord segments rostral to a spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and significantly dilate the spinal cord , yet few neurologic deficits may be noted .
background	Careful physical examination may reveal ascending loss of pain and temperature without evident functional motor decline .
background	We present a 49-year-old man with T4 paraplegia and a large posttraumatic syrinx who died 3 weeks after syringoperitoneal shunting .
outcome	Neuropathologic study revealed a large bilateral syrinx cavity from T1 to C6 that tapered to a small unilateral syrinx at C2 .
outcome	Light microscopy of sections from T1 to C2 showed massive loss of intermediate to intermedio-lateral gray neurons and moderate reduction of motoneurons at T1 to C6 levels .
outcome	Despite these findings , manual muscle testing results remained normal for wrist extensors and elbow extensors , and the patient continued to perform independent sliding board transfers .
outcome	We conclude that this large progressive syrinx did not merely dissect neural elements apart but caused extensive neuronal damage .
outcome	Loss of interneurons was evident in spinal segments with preserved strength and function .
outcome	Possible mechanisms to explain the relatively minimal clinical deficits in view of the neuronal loss are discussed .

###18256674
study design	STUDY DESIGN : Cross-sectional .
background	The objective of this study was to examine the association between the characteristics of individuals with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and self-reported health-related quality of life ( HRQoL ) .
other	The United States .
population	Questions from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System ( BRFSS ) survey were sent to veterans with SCI .
other	The analyses included 2302 respondents .
other	Logistic regression analysis was used to examine the association between subject characteristics and the following four measures of HRQoL frequent physical distress ( FPD ) , frequent mental distress ( FMD ) , frequent depressive symptoms ( FDS ) and poor or fair self-reported health .
outcome	Approximately 19 % of the respondents reported FMD , 27 % reported FPD , 17 % reported FDS and 29 % reported poor or fair health .
outcome	Veterans who self-reported chronic illnesses , had higher odds of reporting FPD , FMD , FDS and poor or fair health than veterans who did not report chronic illnesses .
outcome	Smoking was significantly associated with decreased HRQoL .
outcome	Older veterans had higher odds of reporting poor or fair health and FPD than younger veterans .
outcome	Higher levels of education were associated with lower odds of FMD , FDS and poor or fair health .
outcome	Chronic illnesses and smoking have a substantial effect on HRQoL for persons with SCI , suggesting the importance of continued efforts to improve smoking cessation methods and to treat and prevent chronic conditions .

###9708839
background	To test whether instrumental behavior of some children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) is more variable than control subjects , the sequences of responses by three groups of children were compared : ( i ) those diagnosed with ADHD who liv
intervention	The experiment consisted of rewarding children for responding in a computer ` game ' on two keys of a keyboard during each of three phases .
intervention	In phase 1 , rewards were provided independently of sequence variability ( IND ) .
intervention	In phase 2 , rewards depended upon highly variable sequences of left and right responses .
intervention	Phase 3 was a return to the IND contingencies .
outcome	The results showed that sequence variability was higher in the sequence variability ( VARY ) phase than in the preceding IND phase , but remained high when the contingencies returned to IND , thus replicating previous findings .
outcome	In none of the phases did the ADHD children respond more variably than the controls .
outcome	However , ADHD subjects made more off-task responses than did controls .
outcome	Thus , although the present research showed differences between ADHD and control subjects , there was no evidence to support higher behavioral variability in the ADHD subjects .

###12776867
background	Atrial arrhythmias often complicate congestive heart failure ( CHF ) .
other	We characterized inducible atrial tachyarrhythmias and electrophysiologic alterations in dogs with CHF and atrial enlargement produced by rapid ventricular pacing .
population	Endocardial pacing leads were implanted in the right ventricle , right atrium , and coronary sinus in 18 dogs .
intervention	The right ventricular lead was connected to an implanted pacemaker capable of rapid ventricular pacing .
intervention	The atrial leads were used to perform electrophysiologic studies in conscious animals at baseline in all dogs , during CHF induced by rapid ventricular pacing at 235 beats/min in 15 dogs , and during recovery from CHF in 6 dogs .
outcome	After 20 + / - 7 days of rapid ventricular pacing , inducibility of sustained atrial tachycardia ( cycle length 120 + / - 12 msec ) was enhanced in dogs with CHF .
outcome	Atrial tachycardia required a critical decrease in atrial burst pacing cycle length ( < or = 130 msec ) for induction and often could be terminated by overdrive pacing .
outcome	Calcium antagonists ( verapamil , flunarizine , ryanodine ) terminated atrial tachycardia and suppressed inducibility .
outcome	Effective refractory periods at 400 - and 300-msec cycle lengths in the right atrium and coronary sinus were prolonged in dogs with CHF .
outcome	Atrial cells from dogs with CHF had prolonged action potential durations and reduced resting potentials and delayed afterdepolarizations ( DADs ) .
outcome	Mitochondria from atrial tissue from dogs with CHF were enlarged and had internal cristae disorganization .
outcome	CHF promotes inducibility of sustained atrial tachycardia .
outcome	Based on the mode of tachycardia induction , responses to pacing and calcium antagonists , and presence of DADs , atrial tachycardia in this CHF model has a mechanism most consistent with DAD-induced triggered activity resulting from intracellular calcium ov

###11295898
population	A quasi-experimental design was used to compare the Symptom Checklist 90-Revised profiles ( SCL-90-R ) from a group of patients with whiplash injuries ( n = 67 ) and a group with mixed musculoskeletal pain ( n = 91 ) .
other	To test the discriminant validity of the characteristic SCL-90-R whiplash profile as proposed by Wallis and Bogduk using a multivariate statistical technique .
background	On the basis of two studies by themselves and their colleagues , Wallis and Bogduk proposed a characteristic SCL-90-R profile evident in samples of patients with whiplash injuries .
background	Their assertion has not been tested empirically in any published studies .
population	The participants in this study consisted of 158 patients at a rehabilitation hospital who completed the SCL-90-R under standard instructions and subsequently were diagnosed by a team comprising a chiropractor , physical therapist , and physician .
other	The participants were categorized as having whiplash-associated disorders or pain caused by other musculoskeletal injuries .
other	A profile analysis following Hotelling 's method was used to determine the comparability of SCL-90-R profiles from the two groups .
outcome	The profile analysis showed no statistically significant differences between the groups with regard to either the shape or the overall elevation of their psychological profiles .
outcome	The SCL-90-R profiles from both groups were similar to those reported from other chronic pain syndromes , with elevations on the Somatization , Depression , Obsessive-Compulsive , and Psychoticism scales .
outcome	The current study failed to support the validity of a distinctive SCL-90-R profile for patients with whiplash injuries .
outcome	Instead , the results suggest that the psychological consequences of experiencing chronic pain from whiplash-associated disorders are similar to the psychological consequences of chronic pain from other musculoskeletal injuries .

###8855093
background	To assess the efficacy of transvaginal sonography ( TVS ) in differentiating endometriomas from other adnexal masses .
population	One thousand thirty-five adnexal masses undergoing laparoscopy or laparotomy were evaluated prospectively using TVS .
other	Masses diagnosed as endometrioma according to their sonographic appearance were divided into two groups those with a round shape , regular margins , thick walls and homogeneous , low-level echoes ( group A ) ; or those with irregular margins , internal septations and an anechoic appearance ( group B ) .
outcome	The sensitivity of TVS in diagnosing endometriomas was 86.50 % and the specificity 99.11 % .
outcome	The positive predictive value ( PPV ) and the negative predictive value of the test were calculated to be 91.45 % and 98.14 % , respectively .
outcome	By using the criteria determining group A , the PPV of the test increased to 97 % , whereas group B had a lower PPV ( 70.85 % ) .
outcome	We propose that the accuracy of TVS in diagnosing endometriomas may be beneficial in various clinical conditions .

###12468478
background	To determine whether preoperative assessments carried out by appropriately trained nurses are inferior in quality to those carried out by preregistration house officers .
study design	Randomised controlled equivalence/non-inferiority trial .
other	Four NHS hospitals in three trusts .
other	Three of the four were teaching hospitals .
population	All patients attending for assessment before general anaesthesia for general , vascular , urological , or breast surgery between April 1998 and March 1999 .
intervention	Assessment by one of three appropriately trained nurses or by one of several preregistration house officers .
other	History taken , physical examination , and investigations ordered .
other	Measures evaluated by a specialist registrar in anaesthetics and placed in four categories correct , overassessment , underassessment not affecting management , and underassessment possibly affecting management ( primary outcome ) .
outcome	1907 patients were randomised , and 1874 completed the study ; 926 were assessed by house officers and 948 by nurses .
outcome	Overall 121/948 ( 13 % ) assessments carried out by nurses were judged to have possibly affected management compared with 138/926 ( 15 % ) of those performed by house officers .
outcome	Nurses were judged to be non-inferior to house officers in assessment , although there was variation among them in terms of the quality of history taking .

###16598402
background	Laparoscopic colon resection of the endoscopically unresectable polyp has been considered an ideal case for the surgeon with moderate laparoscopic colectomy experience because tissues are not inflamed and the lymphadenectomy may not need to be as extensiv
other	To assess the appropriateness of this approach , we evaluated the incidence of invasive cancer in a series of laparoscopic colon resections for polyps .
population	A retrospective review was performed of 55 consecutive patients undergoing laparoscopic colon resection for endoscopically unresectable polyps during a 35-month period .
other	Colonoscopy data , polyp characteristics , and final colon pathology were reviewed .
outcome	On final pathologic examination , 18.2 percent of patients had invasive adenocarcinoma .
outcome	Patient age , gender , indication for colonoscopy , polyp size , polyp location , polyp characteristics , and colonoscopic biopsy pathology were not predictive of adenocarcinoma on final pathology .
outcome	A significant number of endoscopically unresectable polyps harbor adenocarcinoma , thereby requiring a formal lymphadenectomy at resection .
outcome	Caution should be exercised when considering the laparoscopic resection of an endoscopically unresectable polyp as a `` learning '' case .

###10623052
background	To determine whether enhanced access to primary care affects the diagnostic evaluation , pharmacologic management , or health outcomes of patients hospitalized with congestive heart failure ( CHF ) .
study design	Multisite randomized , controlled trial .
other	Nine Veterans Affairs medical centers .
population	443 patients who were hospitalized with a diagnosis of CHF .
intervention	Enhanced access to primary care , including assignment of a primary care nurse and physician , increased telephone contact , additional outpatient visits , and patient education .
other	Diagnostic evaluation , pharmacologic management , health-related quality of life , and hospital readmission rates .
outcome	About 80 % of patients who had enhanced access to care and patients receiving usual care underwent recommended evaluation of left ventricular ejection fraction .
outcome	Among the subset of patients for whom an angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor was recommended ( i.e. , ejection fraction < 40 % ) , three quarters of the patients in both the enhanced access and usual care groups received the drug ( 75 % vs. 73 % ; P >
outcome	Enhanced access to primary care did not improve quality of life and increased hospital readmissions , with an average of 1.5 + / - SD 2.0 readmissions per 6 months of follow-up for patients who had enhanced access compared with 1.1 + / - SD 1.8 for those who r
outcome	Compliance with recommended CHF testing and treatment guidelines was equally high in both study groups .
outcome	Enhanced access to primary care did not improve patients ' self-reported health status and was associated with more frequent hospitalizations .

###15919588
background	Remodeling of myocardial cell membranes is a major feature of advanced age .
background	Mitochondrial function , crucial to sustaining energy production and management of myocardial metabolism , is impacted by age-dependent remodeling and ultimately exhibits a diminished threshold for excess Ca ( 2 + ) buffering during events that stimulate increa
background	Relative Ca ( 2 + ) intolerance , augmented superoxide formation and reduced efficiency in the management of reactive oxygen species , are important mitochondrial factors ( of many ) that are apparent in senescence and predispose the myocardium to be more vulnera
background	In addition to cell death , surviving myocytes increase in size and exhibit altered gene expression of key effector proteins , including those that sustain Ca ( 2 + ) homeostasis .
background	Age-associated mitochondrial membrane changes include increases in membrane rigidity , cholesterol , phosphatidylcholine , omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) , 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal , and decreases in omega-3 PUFA and cardiolipin .
outcome	These effects have been shown in animal studies to be exaggerated by diet rich in long chain omega-6 PUFA ( i.e. , arachidonic acid ) , and have profound consequences on the efficacy of membrane proteins involved with ion homeostasis , signal transduction , red
outcome	However , some of the age-related detrimental adaptations may be beneficially modified by dietary strategy .
outcome	Diet rich in omega-3 PUFA reverses the age-associated membrane omega-3 : omega-6 PUFA imbalance , and dysfunctional Ca ( 2 + ) metabolism , facilitating increased efficiency of mitochondrial energy production and improved tolerance of ischemia and reperfusion .

###8864710
population	The effect of oral treatment with acyclovir ( ACV ) on sensory axonal neuropathy , segmental motor paresis and postherpetic neuralgia ( PHN ) was studied in 105 patients with herpes zoster .
intervention	Forty-seven patients were treated with ACV at a dose of 4 g/day in 5 doses for at least a week ; the others did not undergo any kind of treatment .
intervention	Electrodiagnostic examination of the nerves and muscles corresponding to the dermatomeric lesions was performed , including sensory and motor nerve conduction studies , blink reflex and electromyography ( EMG ) .
outcome	The patients treated with ACV showed a significant reduction in the number of cases in which there was electrophysiological evidence of axonal damage in afferent fibres of nerves arising from roots corresponding to affected dermatomes .
outcome	The treated group also showed a smaller incidence of segmental motor neuritis , clinically evident or only detectable by EMG as denervation .
outcome	However , there was no significant difference between groups as far as the incidence of PHN was concerned .
outcome	Oral treatment with ACV therefore reduces peripheral sensory axonopathy due to ganglion damage and prevents the possibility of spread to anterior roots and spinal motoneurones .
outcome	In this way it reduces the incidence of segmental motor neuritis , but does not reduce the incidence of PHN .

###10850747
background	The Medicare Alzheimer Disease Demonstration tested a case management and community care benefit for persons with dementia .
outcome	The demonstration produced statistically but not clinically significant reductions in caregiver burden and depression .
outcome	It increased access to community-based long-term care services but did not affect the level of services used .
outcome	It did not reduce informal caregiver hours spent helping people with dementia .
outcome	It produced statistically significant but not budget-neutral reductions in Medicare expenditures in that the degree of reduction in regular Medicare expenditures was not enough to offset the added demonstration costs .
outcome	It did not reduce rates of nursing home placement .
outcome	Informal care networks providing care to demented enrollees were generally able to function effectively , regardless of whether a professional case manager was involved or whether a long-term care benefit was available .

###18977815
background	Spontaneous cervicocephalic artery dissection ( sCAD ) of more than two cervical arteries is rare .
population	Vascular and potential sCAD risk factors , triggering events , clinical and neuroimaging findings , and outcome of patients with multiple sCAD were studied .
other	Patients were drawn from prospective hospital-based sCAD registries .
other	Of 740 consecutive patients with sCAD , 11 ( 1.5 % ) had three , and one had four ( 0.1 % ) sCAD .
other	Eight of these 12 patients were women .
outcome	One patient had additional dissections of the celiac trunk and hepatic artery .
outcome	Vascular risk factors included hypertension ( n = 1 ) , hypercholesterolaemia ( n = 6 ) , current smoking ( n = 5 ) and migraine ( n = 6 ) .
outcome	No patient had a family history of sCAD , fibromuscular dysplasia ( FMD ) or connective tissue disease .
outcome	SCAD was preceded by a minor trauma in five and infection in four patients .
outcome	Clinical manifestations included ischaemic stroke ( n = 8 ) , transient ischaemic attack ( n = 3 ) , headache ( n = 9 ) , neck pain ( n = 4 ) , Horner syndrome ( n = 5 ) , pulsatile tinnitus ( n = 2 ) and dysgeusia ( n = 1 ) .
outcome	Brain MRI revealed ischaemic infarcts that affected one vessel territory in seven and two territories in two patients .
outcome	The 3-month outcome was favourable ( modified Rankin scale score 0-1 ) in 10 patients ( 83 % ) .
outcome	No new recurrent stroke or sCAD occurred during a mean follow-up of 50 ( SD 29 ) months .
other	Multiple sCAD occurred preferentially in women and caused clinical symptoms and signs mainly in one vascular territory .
other	In none of the patients was FMD or any other underlying arteriopathy apparent .
other	The majority of multiple sCAD was preceded by a minor trauma or infection .
outcome	Clinical outcome was favourable in most patients , and long-term prognosis benign .
outcome	The data suggest that transient vasculopathy may be a major mechanism for multiple sCAD .

###17513658
background	Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis ( CIPA ) is a rare , hereditary , autonomic recessive disorder .
background	The inability to perceive pain results from loss of nociceptive afferents , while anhidrosis is caused by loss of innervation to the sweat glands .
background	Insensitivity to pain and mental retardation lead to self-inflicted injuries , corneal lacerations , painless bony fractures , joint deformities with consequent chronic osteomyelitis , and septic arthritis .
background	There are only a few reports on the anesthetic management for patients with CIPA .
background	We describe the anesthetic management of a young woman with CIPA receiving bilateral arthrodesis of the ankle .

###16270669
background	The goal of medical residency is to provide the best clinical education for future practice , while increasing quality and safety in current and future healthcare .
background	This goal is not being met .
background	Traditional residency programs often continue to utilize individually oriented , shame-and-blame approaches that do not recognize the systems nature of outcomes , care , and patient safety .
background	Appropriate substantive methods , content , and training tools are also lacking , while residents continue to labor in a poor working environment .
background	All these factors create a system that serves no one-not the resident , the patient , or the system in which both interact .
background	Residency reforms are proposed to address these imperative concerns .

###17030685
background	Atrial fibrosis is an important substrate in atrial fibrillation ( AF ) , particularly in the setting of structural heart disease .
background	In a canine model , congestive heart failure ( CHF ) produces significant atrial fibrosis and the substrate for sustained AF .
background	This atrial remodeling is a potential therapeutic target .
other	The objective of the present study is to evaluate the effects of the antifibrotic drug pirfenidone ( PFD ) on arrhythmogenic atrial remodeling in a canine CHF model .
population	We studied 15 canines , divided equally into 3 groups : control , CHF canines not treated with PFD , and CHF canines treated with PFD .
intervention	CHF was induced by ventricular tachypacing ( 220 bpm for 3 weeks ) , and oral PFD was administered for the 3-week pacing period .
other	We performed electrophysiology and AF vulnerability studies , atrial fibrosis measurements , and atrial cytokine expression studies .
outcome	Only canines in the untreated CHF group developed sustained AF ( > 30 minutes , 4 of 5 canines ; P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Treatment of CHF canines with PFD resulted in an attenuation of arrhythmogenic left atrial remodeling , with a significant reduction in left atrial conduction heterogeneity index ( median [ 25 % to 75 % interquartile range ] 4.96 [ 3.53 to 5.64 ] versus 2.52 [ 2.1
outcome	Immunoblotting studies demonstrated the drug 's effects on multiple cytokines , including a reduction in transforming growth factor-beta1 expression .
outcome	Treatment of CHF canines with PFD results in significantly reduced arrhythmogenic atrial remodeling and AF vulnerability .
outcome	Pharmacological therapy targeted at the fibrotic substrate itself may play an important role in the management of AF .

###17927294
background	Agmatine is an endogenous neuromodulator that , based on animal studies , has the potential for new drug development .
background	As an endogenous aminoguanidine compound ( 1-amino-4-guanidinobutane ) , it is structurally unique compared with other monoamines .
background	Agmatine was long thought to be synthesised only in lower life forms , until its biosynthetic pathway ( decarboxylation of arginine ) was described in the mammalian brain in 1994 .
other	Human arginine decarboxylase has been cloned and shown to have 48 % identity to ornithine decarboxylase .
other	In neurons of the brain and spinal cord , agmatine is packaged into synaptic vesicles and released upon neuronal depolarisation .
background	Initially , agmatine was conceptualised as an endogenous clonidine-displacing
background	In addition to activity at these receptors , agmatine irreversibly inhibits neuronal nitric oxide synthase and downregulates inducible nitric oxide synthase.Endogenous agmatine is induced in response to stress and/or inflammation .
background	Stressful conditions that induce agmatine include hypoxic-ischaemia and cold-restraint stress of ulcerogenic proportion .
background	Induction of agmatine in the brain seems to occur in astrocytes , although neurons also synthesise agmatine .
intervention	The effects of injected agmatine in animals include anticonvulsant - , antineurotoxic - and antidepressant-like actions .
population	Intraperitoneal or intracerebroventricular injections of agmatine rapidly elicit antidepressant-like behavioural changes in the rodent forced swim test and tail suspension test .
other	Intraperitoneal injections of agmatine into rats and mice also elicit acute anxiolytic-like behavioural changes in the elevated plus-maze stress test .
outcome	In an animal model of acute stress disorder , intraperitoneal agmatine injections diminish contextual fear learning .
outcome	Furthermore , intraperitoneal injections of agmatine reduce alcohol and opioid dependence by diminishing behaviour in a rat conditioned place preference paradigm.Based on these findings , agmatine appears to be an endogenous neuromodulator of mental stress .
outcome	The possible roles and/or beneficial effects of agmatine in stress-related disorders , such as depression , anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder , merit further investigation .

###15042275
background	The investigation of rodent cocaine self-administration ( SA ) under conditions that promote escalating patterns of intake may provide insight into the loss of control over drug use that is central to human addiction .
other	This study examines the effects of daily long-access ( LgA ) SA of high or low cocaine doses on drug intake , extinction , reinstatement , and brain mRNA levels .
population	Three groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to self-administer cocaine during multiple-dose sessions .
other	Short-access ( ShA ) rats were tested daily for multi-dose SA then remained in the chambers for 7 h with no cocaine available .
other	LgA rats had access to low ( 0.5 mg/kg per infusion ; LgA-LD ) or high ( 2.0 mg/kg per infusion ; LgA-HD ) cocaine doses for 7 h after multi-dose SA .
other	After 14 days , responding was extinguished , cocaine-induced reinstatement was determined , and preproenkephalin ( ppENK ) , preprodynorphin ( ppDYN ) , corticotropin releasing factor ( CRF ) and dopamine D ( 2 ) receptor ( D ( 2 ) R ) mRNA levels were measured in various brain regions using a quantitative solution hybridization RNase protection assay .
outcome	Whereas SA was not altered in ShA rats and only increased during the `` loading phase '' in LgA-LD rats , a general escalation of intake was found in LgA-HD rats .
outcome	LgA , particularly LgA-HD , rats were more susceptible to reinstatement than ShA rats .
outcome	Caudate-putamen ppENK and nucleus accumbens D ( 2 ) R mRNA levels were elevated in LgA-HD rats .
outcome	Overall , D ( 2 ) R mRNA levels were positively correlated with reinstatement .
outcome	The escalation of cocaine SA under LgA conditions is dose-dependent and is associated with heightened susceptibility to drug-induced relapse .
outcome	The characterization of neurobiological alterations that accompany escalated SA should facilitate the identification of mechanisms underlying the onset of human addiction .

###17891468
background	Canine aggressive behaviour is one of the most common problems being reported by dog owners .
background	However , the biochemical basis of this phenomenon remains unclear .
background	In humans , alterations in omega-3 plasma polyunsatured fatty acids and elevated omega6/omega -3 ratio have been linked to behavioural alterations , including aggression .
other	Thus far , however , the relationship between plasma polyunsatured fatty acid status and aggression has not been investigated in the dog .
other	In the present study we sought to investigate whether polyunsatured fatty acid status could be altered in plasma of pathologically aggressive Canis familiaris .
population	Eighteen adult male German Shepherd dogs , aged 4.9 + / - 0.9 years , showing no clinical signs but aggression , were investigated .
population	Eighteen healthy male dogs , aged 4.8 + / - 0.7 years , with a negative history of behavioural and neurological disorders served as controls .
other	Baseline fasting plasma polyunsatured fatty acid composition was determined by gas chromatography .
outcome	Compared to normal dogs , aggressive dogs showed lower docosahexaenoic acid ( 22:6 n-3 ) concentrations and a higher omega6/omega -3 ratio .
outcome	In addition , they showed reduced cholesterol and bilirubin concentrations compared to their normally behaving counterparts .
outcome	Altogether , our results suggest that low omega-3 fatty acids may adversely impact behaviour in dogs , resulting in greater propensity to aggression .
outcome	However , given the cross-sectional design of our study , we can not claim any causal relationship between the presence of alterations in fatty acid status and canine aggressiveness .
outcome	Whether omega-3 fatty acids supplementation may be useful to reduce aggressive behaviour in the dog deserves further investigation .

###18066937
background	The prevalence and profile of adults with a history of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) has not been studied in large North American forensic mental health populations .
background	This study investigated how adults with a documented history of TBI differed with the non-TBI forensic population with respect to demographics , psychiatric diagnoses and history of offences .
population	A retrospective chart review of all consecutive admissions to a forensic psychiatry programme in Toronto , Canada was conducted .
other	Information on history of TBI , psychiatric diagnoses , living environments and types of criminal offences were obtained from medical records .
outcome	History of TBI was ascertained in 23 % of 394 eligible patient records .
outcome	Compared to those without a documented history of TBI , persons with this history were less likely to be diagnosed with schizophrenia but more likely to have alcohol/substance abuse disorder .
outcome	There were also differences observed with respect to offence profiles .
outcome	This study provides evidence to support routine screening for a history of TBI in forensic psychiatry .

###11342895
background	We compared the tolerability and clinical efficacy of tolterodine with those of oxybutynin in patients with an overactive bladder using an upward oxybutynin dose titration strategy analogous to that used in routine clinical practice in the United Kingdom
population	In a randomized double-blind trial 378 male and female patients 50 years old or older with symptoms of overactive bladder ( a urinary frequency of 8 or more voids per 24 hours with urgency and/or urge incontinence , that is 1 or more urge incontinence episo
other	The main outcome measures were changes in voiding diary variables combined with detailed tolerability-safety assessments .
outcome	Patients treated with tolterodine had significantly fewer adverse events ( 69 % versus 81 % , p = 0.01 ) , notably dry mouth ( 37 % versus 61 % , p < 0.0001 ) , as well as a lower incidence of dose reduction ( 6 % versus 25 % , p < 0.0001 ) than those in the oxybutyni
outcome	Each agent had comparable efficacy for improving urinary symptoms .
outcome	Tolterodine and oxybutynin caused a significant decrease ( p = 0.0001 ) in the mean number of voids per 24 hours ( -1.7 or -15 % and -1.7 or -15 % , respectively ) , urge incontinence episodes per 24 hours ( -1.3 or -54 % and -1.8 or -62 % , respectively ) and mean vo
outcome	Tolterodine is as effective as oxybutynin for improving the symptoms of overactive bladder but it has superior tolerability .
outcome	The combination of these qualities makes tolterodine the preferred pharmacological therapy for the long-term treatment of this condition .

###16261409
background	BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations confer a high lifetime risk to breast and ovarian cancers .
population	We have screened cancer patients from 13 families with at least three breast and/or ovarian cancers from Lithuania for 5382insC , C61G and 4153delA BRCA1 gene mutations .
outcome	One of three mutations was found in 9 of the 13 studied families ( 69 % ) .
outcome	4153delA was the most frequently detected and accounted for 56 % of all identified mutation .
outcome	5382insC and C61G accounted for 33 % and 11 % of found mutations , respectively .
outcome	Significantly higher , than in other populations , incidence of 4153delA indicates that this may be founder BRCA1 mutation characteristic for Lithuanians .
outcome	Our analysis shows that testing of 4153delA , 5382insC , C61G BRCA1 mutations should be extremely effective and inexpensive tool in testing Lithuanian population aimed to identify individuals with high risk of breast and ovarian cancers .

###10495097
background	Perrow 's models of organizational technologies provide a framework for analyzing clinical work processes and identifying the management structures and informatics tools to support each model .
background	From this perspective , health care is a mixed model in which knowledge workers require flexible management and a variety of informatics tools .
background	A Venn diagram representing the content of clinical decisions shows that uncertainties in the components of clinical decisions largely determine which type of clinical work process is in play at a given moment .
background	By reducing uncertainties in clinical decisions , informatics tools can support the appropriate implementation of knowledge and free clinicians to use their creativity where patients require new or unique interventions .
background	Outside health care , information technologies have made possible breakthrough strategies for business success that would otherwise have been impossible .
background	Can health informatics work similar magic and help health care agencies fulfill their social mission while establishing sound business practices ?
background	One way to do this would be through personalized health care .
background	Extensive data collected from patients could be aggregated and analyzed to support better decisions for the care of individual patients as well as provide projections of the need for health services for strategic and tactical planning .
background	By making excellent care for each patient possible , reducing the `` inventory '' of little-needed services , and targeting resources to population needs , informatics can offer a route to the `` promised land '' of adequate resources and high-qu

###18333297
background	To characterize the matched maternal and cord plasma and the amniotic fluid concentrations of iodide in preterm and term human pregnancies .
population	Specimens were collected at the delivery of 121 singleton pregnancies ( 92 at term , 29 preterm ) with no pre-existing medical complications .
other	Plasma unbound iodide concentrations were measured by the difference between the protein bound iodine and the total iodine measured spectrophotometrically .
other	Total iodide was measured in amniotic fluid .
outcome	Maternal plasma iodide concentrations were 1.6 + / - 0.4 mcg/dL ( mean + / - S.D. ) for preterm deliveries and 1.5 + / -0.5 mcg/dL for term deliveries .
outcome	Cord plasma iodide concentrations were 1.4 + / - 0.5 mcg/dL for preterm deliveries and 1.7 + / - 0.7 mcg/dL for term deliveries .
outcome	Cord plasma iodide concentrations at birth correlated highly with maternal levels ( p < 0.001 ) .
outcome	The cord : maternal plasma iodide ratio for all pairs was 1.2 + / - 0.7 .
outcome	The average cord : maternal plasma iodide ratio was not significantly different between the preterm ( 0.9 + / - 0.4 ) and term ( 1.3 + / - 0.8 ) deliveries .
outcome	Amniotic fluid iodide concentrations did not correlate significantly with cord plasma concentrations .
outcome	Cord plasma concentrations of iodide correlate with paired maternal levels , indicating that , unlike the rabbit and other species , the human conceptus does not highly concentrate iodide .

###8423177
population	The results were reviewed for thirty patients in whom a thoracolumbar fracture had been treated with a Harrington rod placed three segments cephalad and two or three segments caudad to the injured vertebra and a short arthrodesis with removal of the Harri
other	The patients were evaluated with clinical examinations , lateral radiographs made with the spine in flexion and extension , and questionnaires at a median of thirty-two months after the stabilization .
outcome	All of the arthrodeses were successful .
outcome	The twenty patients who had a burst or compression fracture and who had posterior instrumentation lost only an average of 9 degrees of sagittal correction before attaining a solid fusion .
outcome	For all thirty patients , the average motion in the sagittal plane at the vertebrae that had been spanned by the Harrington rod but not included in the arthrodesis ranged from 9 degrees at the third and fourth lumbar level to 2 degrees at the eighth and ni
outcome	The average total motion between five vertebrae that had been spanned by the rod but did not have an arthrodesis was 24 degrees ; between four vertebrae , 23 degrees ; and between three vertebrae , 19 degrees .
outcome	In this series of thoracolumbar fractures treated with a longer Harrington rod than needed to span the level of the arthrodesis and a short arthrodesis , there was a documented return of motion to segments that had been previously spanned by the instrument

###12235618
background	Randomized clinical trials ( RCTs ) are widely considered to be the gold standard of evidence for treatment efficacy , but they have not been widely applied to rehabilitation or , more specifically , traumatic brain injury rehabilitation .
background	Ethical , scientific , and resource factors may limit the application of RCTs .
background	Thus , rigorous observational alternatives to the RCT would be of great value .
intervention	In the article by Powell et al , an attempt to rigorously apply an observational design to assess the relative effectiveness of inpatient rehabilitation versus home discharge failed to control for important confounding factors .
outcome	It appears nearly impossible to successfully apply observational designs when the factors leading to the applications of different treatments are strongly related to the patient 's perceived prognosis .
outcome	However , observational designs may be successfully applied when regional or temporal variations in care are studied .
outcome	Moreover , a number of developments in measurement , study design , and statistical analysis may expand the role of observational studies in answering questions of rehabilitation efficacy and effectiveness .

###15151012
background	The role of novel nutrients that appear to have pharmacological effects on the immune system has been studied over the past 20 years .
background	This area of research has been termed immunonutrition .
background	This paper provides an overview of particular novel nutrients -- argtnine , glutamine , omega-3 fatty acids , and nucleotides -- and examines some of the evidence for the effects that they may have on immune function .
background	The benefits to particular patient groups are also considered ( Box 1 ) .

###16522994
background	Home blood pressure monitoring ( HBPM ) improves blood pressure control , but little is known about its effects on medication adherence .
study design	The authors conducted a systematic review of the published literature on the effects of HBPM on medication adherence .
other	Of 440 abstracts and citations reviewed , 11 randomized control trials met predefined criteria .
intervention	Six of the 11 randomized controlled trials reported statistically significant improvement in medication adherence ; 84 % of these were complex interventions involving the use of HBPM in combination with other adherence-enhancing strategies such as patient c
outcome	Interventions conducted in primary care settings were not effective compared with those that occurred in hospital-based clinics or nonclinical settings .
outcome	The data on the effects of HBPM on patients ' medication-taking behavior are mixed .
outcome	Future studies should investigate the independent effects of HBPM in primary care practices where the majority of hypertensive patients receive their care .

###8215852
population	Functional changes were assessed in a group of 279 individuals with long-term spinal cord injuries .
background	All had sustained their initial injuries 20 to 47 years ago and all had received initial and postinjury follow-up care at one of two British spinal cord injury treatment centers .
outcome	Twenty-two percent reported that the need for physical assistance from others had increased over the years .
outcome	Most ( 45 % ) needed additional help with transfers ; others needed more assistance with dressing , mobility , and toileting .
outcome	When compared to those whose need for help had not increased , significant differences were found by age : as a group , and when separated by level and severity of injury , those needing more help were older , and those with cervical injuries needed help at yo
outcome	Those needing more help also had significantly more reports of shoulder pain , fatigue and weakness , weight gain , and postural changes .
outcome	They used more attendant care , and perceived their quality of life to be lower than those whose level of function had not changed over time .

###14750543
background	Bioethics , and indeed much ethical writing generally , makes its point through narratives .
background	The religious parable no less than the medical teaching case uses a simple story to describe appropriate action or the application of a critical principle .
background	While powerful , the telling story has limits .
population	In this paper the authors describe a simple teaching case on `` end-of-life '' decision making that was ill received by its audience .
background	The authors ill-received example , involving the disconnection of ventilation in a patient with ALS ( Lou Gherig 's Disease ) was critiqued by audience members with long-term experience as ventilation users .
other	In this case , the supposedly simple narrative of the presenters conflicted with the life histories of the audience .
outcome	The lessons of this story , and the conflict that resulted , speak critically to the limits of simple teaching cases as well as the strengths of narrative analysis as a tool for the exploration of bioethical case histories.analytical approachbioethics and p

###12847782
background	Concordance between patients ' and informants ' reports of personality disorders ( PDs ) is low , raising the questions of which source provides more valid data and whether both contribute unique information .
population	This study compared patients ' and informants ' reports of PDs in predicting outcome in a 7 1/2 - year follow-up of 85 depressed outpatients .
other	Patients and informants were independently evaluated using structured interviews ; outcome was assessed using structured interviews with patients .
outcome	Both patients ' and informants ' reports of PD diagnoses and dimensional scores independently predicted depression symptoms and global functioning at follow-up .
outcome	However , only informants ' reports made a unique contribution to predicting social adjustment .
outcome	This finding indicates that both patients and informants provide unique information on Axis II psychopathology and argues for the use of both sources in the assessment of PDs .

###17907758
background	The main objective was to assess how group premiums can help poor people in the informal economy prepay for health care services .
other	A comparative approach was adopted to study four groups of informal economy operators ( cobblers , welders , carpenters , small scale market retailers ) focusing on a method of prepayment which could help them access health care services .
population	Two groups with a total of 714 operators were organized to prepay for health care services through a group premium , while the other two groups with a total of 702 operators were not organized to prepay through this approach .
other	They prepaid through individual premium , each operator paying from his or her sources .
other	Data on the four groups which lived in the same city was collected through a questionnaire and focus group discussions .
other	Data collected was focused on health problems , health seeking behaviour and payment for health care services .
other	Training of all the groups on prepaid health care financing based on individual based premium payment and group based premium payment was done .
other	Groups were then free to choose which method to use in prepaying for health care .
other	Prepayment through the two methods was then observed over a period of three years .
other	Trends of membership attrition and retention were documented for both approaches .
outcome	Data collected showed that the four groups were similar in many respects .
outcome	These similarities included levels of education , housing , and social services such as water supplies , health problems , family size and health seeking behaviour .
outcome	At the end of a period of three years 76 % of the members from the two groups who chose group premium payment were still members of the prepayment health scheme and were receiving health care .
outcome	For the two groups which opted for individual premium payment only 15 % of their members were still receiving health care services at the end of three years .
outcome	Group premium is a useful tool in improving accessibility to health care services in the poorer segments of the population especially the informal economy operators

###14770136
background	Postoperative rehabilitation for patients who have sustained a laceration to their flexor tendon apparatus is an important factor in maximizing functional outcome .
background	Quality rehabilitation is characterized by the development of a tailored exercise regimen .
background	There is currently no model available to tailor an exercise regimen for a person with an atypical physiologic response pattern .
background	If rehabilitation protocols were classified according to the criteria of forces applied across a tendon juncture and/or excursion , and a clinical method were available to assist in the identification of optimal tendon loading and/or excursion application ,
study design	The author conducted a literature review and case study .
other	A model for systematic application of progressive loading exercises to the intrasynovial flexor tendon injury and repair is conceptually developed .
intervention	The model consists of a pyramidal series of eight specific rehabilitation exercises in the following sequence : passive protected extension , place and hold , active composite fist , hook and straight fist , isolated joint motion , resistive composite fist , res
other	Concepts are developed to implement a three-point clinical adhesion-grading system .
other	Clinical application of the system is highlighted .
outcome	An excellent outcome was considered 112 % total active motion .
outcome	A model for systematic application of progressive loading exercises has been conceptually developed in concert with a method for determination of optimal tendon loading .
outcome	Further substantiation is necessary to validate the proposed theory .

###8580657
background	To compare the presence in levels of antiovarian antibodies ( AOAb ) in the pre - and postovulatory stage from serum of infertile patients undergoing intrauterine insemination ( IUI ) or in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) with outcome of the procedures .
population	Serum from 36 women undergoing IUI , 36 women undergoing IVF and 25 fertile , healthy controls were assayed for the presence of AOAb by a commercially available ELISA kit .
outcome	AOAb was positive in 59.7 % of infertile women , while none of the fertile controls were positive for AOAb .
outcome	The levels of these antibodies increased as the patient age and the number of treatment attempts increased .
outcome	Though the presence of AOAb did not affect oocyte recovery rate , it resulted in decreased fertilization rate , cleavage rate , and pregnancy rate in infertile women .
outcome	Our studies suggest that AOAb may be a cause of infertility and presence of these antibodies could have adverse effects on the outcome of assisted reproductive techniques .

###10527084
background	To examine the utility of quantitative sensory testing ( QST ) to characterize sensory dysfunction in patients with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
intervention	METHOD :
intervention	Three QST trials were administered to six lower leg dermatomes , on two different days , to estimate the reliability of measurement .
other	Regional Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Center in Ontario , Canada .
population	Twenty-one SCI patients with incomplete neurologic deficits and 14 able-bodied controls of similar age .
outcome	ANOVA revealed significantly ( p < .05 ) reduced perceptual threshold values ( hypoesthesia ) for warm , cold , and vibratory sensation in the SCI group .
outcome	There were no differences between group mean values for cold pain because of the inclusion of patients with hypoalgesia and hyperalgesia .
outcome	Intraclass correlation coefficient estimates of reliability revealed large between-subject variability in the SCI patients associated with relatively small trial-to-trial variability within each day of testing , and appreciable between-day variances .
outcome	With QST in SCI there is a need for repeated measurements across days to establish stable baseline measures or outcomes following intervention .
outcome	QST is a useful adjunct to clinical examination for assessment of preserved sensation .

###11869583
background	Counsellors are prevalent in primary care settings .
background	However , there are concerns about the clinical and cost-effectiveness of the treatments they provide , compared with alternatives such as usual care from the general practitioner , medication or other psychological therapies .
other	To assess the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of counselling in primary care by reviewing cost and outcome data in randomised controlled trials , controlled clinical trials and controlled patient preference trials of counselling interventions in primary care , for patients with psychological and psychosocial problems considered suitable for counselling .
other	The original search strategy included electronic searching of databases ( including the CCDAN Register of RCTs and CCTs ) along with handsearching of a specialist journal .
other	Published and unpublished sources ( clinical trials , books , dissertations , agency reports etc. ) were searched , and their reference lists scanned to uncover further controlled trials .
other	Contact was made with subject experts and CCDAN members in order to uncover further trials .
other	For the updated review , searches were restricted to those databases judged to be high yield in the first version of the review MEDLINE , EMBASE , PSYCLIT and CINAHL , the Cochrane Controlled Trials register and the CCDAN trials register .
population	All controlled trials comparing counselling in primary care with other treatments for patients with psychological and psychosocial problems considered suitable for counselling .
other	Trials completed before the end of June 2001 were included in the review .
other	Data were extracted using a standardised data extraction sheet .
other	The relevant data were entered into the Review Manager software .
other	Trials were quality rated , using CCDAN criteria , to assess the extent to which their design and conduct were likely to have prevented systematic error .
other	Continuous measures of outcome were combined using standardised mean differences .
other	An overall effect size was calculated for each outcome with 95 % confidence intervals .
other	Continuous data from different measuring instruments were transformed into a standard effect size by dividing mean values by standard deviations .
other	In view of the diversity of counselling services in primary care ( the range of treatments , patients and practitioners ) tests of heterogeneity were done to assess the feasibility of aggregating measures of outcome from trials .
other	Sensitivity analyses were undertaken to test the robustness of the results .
other	Seven trials were included in the review .
outcome	The main analyses showed significantly greater clinical effectiveness in the counselling group compared with ` usual care ' in the short-term ( standardised mean difference -0.28 , 95 % CI -0.43 to -0.13 , n = 772 , 6 trials ) but not the long-term ( standardised me
outcome	Levels of satisfaction with counselling were high .
outcome	Four studies reported similar total costs associated with counselling and usual care over the long-term .
outcome	However , the economic analyses were likely to be underpowered .
outcome	Counselling is associated with modest improvement in short-term outcome compared to ` usual care ' , but provides no additional advantages in the long-term .
outcome	Patients are satisfied with counselling , and it may not be associated with increased costs .

###11686999
background	The prevalence of obesity and overweight is increasing world-wide .
background	Obesity in children impacts on their health in both the short and longer term .
background	Obesity prevention strategies are poorly understood .
other	To assess the effectiveness of interventions designed to prevent obesity in childhood .
other	Electronic databases were searched from 1985 to October 1999 .
other	Data from RCTs and non-randomised trials with concurrent control group were included .
other	studies with follow up of one year minimum were selected , A priori , this was subsequently amended to include studies with minimum follow up of three months .
other	The possible susceptibility of post hoc questions to bias is addressed .
other	Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed study quality .
other	Seven studies were included , three long-term and four short - term .
outcome	The studies included were diverse in terms of study design and quality , target population , theoretical underpinning of intervention approach , and outcome measures .
outcome	As such , it was not possible to combine study findings using statistical methods .
outcome	The findings of the review suggest that currently there is limited quality data on the effectiveness of obesity prevention programs and as such no generalisable conclusions can be drawn .
outcome	The need for well-designed studies which examine a range of interventions remains a priority .

###16338278
background	The clinical outcome of acid-related disorders treated by proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) might be dependent on the polymorphically expressed cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 2C19 , which is involved in PPI metabolism .
other	We tested whether esomeprazole-induced healing of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) is related to CYP2C19 genotype .
population	Two hundred five patients with GERD ( Los Angeles classification grade A or B ) were included in a case-control study according to endoscopic outcome ( healed versus unhealed group , matched for confounders ) after treatment with 40 mg esomeprazole daily for 4
other	The frequency of CYP2C19 genotypes was determined as the primary outcome measure for both groups .
other	In a second trial plasma levels of esomeprazole and corresponding CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 metabolites ( 5-hydroxyomeprazole and omeprazole sulfone ) were monitored in 10 CYP2C19 wild-type patients with GERD after the first and last doses ( day 7 ) of 40 mg esomeprazole daily to calculate metabolic ratios .
outcome	CYP2C19 wild-type ( n = 148 ) and heterozygous ( n = 51 ) or homozygous variant ( n = 6 ) patients did not differ with respect to baseline characteristics .
outcome	The frequency distribution of CYP2C19 genotypes was not different between patients with complete ( 75/100 ) and incomplete ( 73/105 ) healing ( P = .65 ) .
outcome	When a single esomeprazole dose and multiple dosing were compared , the low contribution of CYP2C19 to the elimination of esomeprazole decreased further by 50 % .
outcome	In contrast , the CYP3A4-dependent formation of omeprazole sulfone increased by 40 % , and consequently , the metabolic ratio of omeprazole sulfone to 5-hydroxyomeprazole was elevated from 7.9 to 19.3 ( P = .0004 ) .
outcome	In contrast to other PPIs , esomeprazole-induced healing of GERD is unrelated to the CYP2C19 genotype , which can be explained by the metabolic shift toward the CYP3A4-mediated pathway .

###12271241
background	Telemedicine can be defined as the electronic transfer of medical information to remote sites in order to support patient care and medical education ( Norton et al , 1997 ) .
background	The concept of telemedicine has been around for more than 20 years ; however , with the advantages of affordable technology it is set to play a major role in the future of health care .
background	The use of telemedicine within the field of dermatological practice is well documented in the literature but the use of this referral system by clinical nurse specialists in tissue viability appears to be in its infancy .
background	This article seeks to dispel the myths around the use of technology to enhance clinical practice and uses the authors ' personal experience to describe its effectiveness for referring patients with complex tissue viability needs .

###17033947
background	To compare the appearance of superficial lymph nodes on standard two-dimensional ( 2D ) ultrasound examination and on three-dimensional ( 3D ) ultrasound examination .
population	Fifty two lymph nodes ( 35 cervical , 16 axillary , 1 inguinal ) in 52 patients were examined with ultrasound in 3D mode .
other	In standard 2D grey-scale examination and on a C-plane of 3D mode ( parallel to the surface of the probe ) , the shape of a lymph node and its hilum were assessed .
other	Final histopathological diagnoses included 36 lymphomas , 11 reactive or inflammatory lymph nodes , 3 metastases and 2 plasmocytoma infiltrations .
outcome	The appearance of hilums and lymph nodes as a whole changed on a C-plane of 3D mode ( as compared with 2D presentation ) in 28 % and 37 % , respectively .
outcome	The differences in lymph node shape on 2D and 3D ultrasound were apparent in a comparable percentage of reactive lymph nodes ( 45 % ) and lymphomatous lymph nodes ( 39 % ) .
outcome	The differences in lymph node hilum shape on 2D and 3D ultrasound applied to 56 % of reactive lymph nodes and 20 % of lymphomatous lymph nodes .
outcome	Three-dimensional imaging on a C-plane ( parallel to the surface of the probe ) may supply the examiner with different information concerning the shape of the lymph node and its hilum in comparison to standard 2D ultrasound .
outcome	Changes in the shapes of hilum and lymph node occurred in reactive or inflamed lymph nodes as well as in lymphomas .
outcome	Clinical significance of this fact demands further investigation .

###12461496
background	To examine pediatricians ' attitudes toward children 's participation in randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) and identify possible barriers to participation .
population	Qualitative analysis of focus group discussions involving 16 pediatricians and 5 trainees from a pediatric teaching hospital in Australia .
other	Doctors varied in occupation , experience , research activity , age , sex , ethnicity , and parenthood experience .
other	A professional facilitator conducted the semistructured group discussions .
other	The transcribed audiotapes were analyzed by theme linkage by using the constant comparative method .
outcome	Pediatricians believed parents balanced perceived gains and risks when deciding about trial participation .
outcome	They thought the child 's condition , parents ' health beliefs and personal attributes , and the doctors ' beliefs and relationship with the investigators influenced parents ' attitudes .
outcome	Perceived gains included professional benefits for pediatricians , improved patient care , convenience for the families and themselves , and scientific advancement .
outcome	Perceived risks included inconvenience , inadequate resources , and potential harms to the patient and doctor-patient relationship .
outcome	Pediatricians with previous research experience were most knowledgeable about RCTs and perceived greatest gains from trial participation .
outcome	Pediatricians ' personal treatment preferences hindered trial support .
outcome	This study suggests that children 's participation in trials will be enhanced by increasing pediatricians ' awareness of RCTs through education and involvement in trials and by improving the gains-risk balance.biomedical and behavioral researchempirical app

###8938614
background	The aim of this study was to see whether results of anterior interbody lumbar fusion could be improved with the help of an external transpedicular device .
population	Anterior interbody lumbar fusion was carried out in 83 patients , using the technique described by Suzuki .
intervention	Fifty-six ( 67 % ) patients were fused with the Magerl-Schläpfer external fixator device as a posterior support .
intervention	Twenty-seven patients had interbody fusion and a conventional plastic brace for support .
other	The clinical and radiological results of anterior interbody lumbar fusion were compared between these groups .
other	The mean follow-up time was 5 ( range , 2-10 ) years .
other	A total of 128 levels were fused .
other	There were no statistical differences in the clinical and radiological results between patients fused with or without the external fixator .
outcome	There were many complications associated with the use of an external fixator device .
outcome	We do not recommend the use of an external fixator in anterior interbody lumbar fusion .

###15503703
background	Although several reports characterize pain associated with adult-onset spinal cord injury ( SCI ) , little is known about the incidence and etiology of pain associated with pediatric-onset SCI .
other	The purpose of this study was to assess the incidence and type of chronic pain in the pediatric SCI population and to evaluate the resulting impact on activities of daily living ( ADLs ) .
population	Patients attending clinic in a pediatric tertiary care facility in a major metropolitan area having sustained an SCI during childhood were asked to participate .
other	Participants were assessed using the Adolescent Pediatric Pain Tool and the Lansky Play Performance Scale , 2 standardized assessments of pain and function , respectively .
other	In addition , a questionnaire designed to characterize the population and the types of pain reported was administered .
population	Thirty-one participants were enrolled with an age range at the time of injury from 5 months to 18 years .
outcome	Of this population , 65 % reported chronic pain .
outcome	The pain reports were classified as either nocioceptive ( 48 % ) or neuropathic ( 19 % ) .
outcome	Interference with ADLs and play was present in only 1 participant .
outcome	Based on these pilot data , pain associated with a pediatric-onset SCI is common .
outcome	The incidence of pain in this study approached the reported incidence of chronic pain in adult-onset SCI .
outcome	In the present population , nocioceptive pain was more common than was neuropathic pain .
outcome	These data suggest that although common , chronic pain associated with childhood SCI has a significantly smaller impact on daily activities than that reported in the literature for adult-onset SCI .

###18415716
background	At present there are no standardized recommendations concerning physiotherapy of individuals with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) resulting in a high variability of methods and intensity .
other	The aim of this literature review is to develop recommendations concerning physiotherapy in the post-acute phase after TBI on the basis of scientific evidence .
study design	METHOD : literature review : data bases : PubMed , PEDro , OT-Seeker , Cochrane and Cinahl .
other	Keywords brain injury ( in PEDro , OT-Seeker , Cochrane ) , brain injury AND physical therapy ( in PubMed and Cinahl ) .
other	Fourteen studies met the inclusion criteria and were grouped into sub-groups sensory stimulation , therapy intensity , casting/splinting , exercise or aerobic training and functional skill training .
outcome	While for sensory stimulation evidence could not be proven , a strong evidence exists that more intensive rehabilitation programmes lead to earlier functional abilities .
outcome	The recommendation due to casting for the improvement of passive range of motion is a grade B , while only a C recommendation is appropriate concerning tonus reduction .
outcome	Strong evidence exists that intensive task-orientated rehabilitation programmes lead to earlier and better functional abilities .
outcome	Although some recommendations for the effectiveness of physical therapy interventions could be expressed , there are many questions concerning the treatment of humans with TBI which have not been investigated so far .
outcome	Especially on the level of activity and participation only a few studies exist .

###18487570
background	We surveyed cancer physicians to understand how patients ' age and comorbidity influence adjuvant chemotherapy recommendations and whether physician or practice characteristics also affect these recommendations .
population	National survey of surgeons and medical oncologists caring for patients with colorectal cancer regarding whether they would recommend adjuvant chemotherapy for hypothetical patients with stage III colon cancer who varied by age ( 55 v 80 years ) and comorbi
other	Repeated measures logistic regression was used to assess the influence of patient , physician , and practice characteristics on chemotherapy recommendations .
outcome	Of 1,096 physicians , nearly all recommended chemotherapy for patients who were 55 years old with no comorbidity ( 99.0 % ) , 55-years old with moderate CHF ( 88.6 % ) , or 80 years old with no comorbidity ( 92.6 % ) ; many fewer recommended chemotherapy for 55-year-o
outcome	Younger physicians ( P < .001 ) were more likely than others to recommend adjuvant chemotherapy overall , although physician factors explained little of the variability in recommendations .
outcome	Physicians agree with guidelines recommending adjuvant chemotherapy for young , healthy patients with stage III colon cancer but differ widely on recommendations for patients who are older and sicker .
outcome	Few physician or practice characteristics were associated with recommendations .
outcome	For older and sicker patients , the individual physicians seen may have a substantial impact on the likelihood of receiving chemotherapy .
outcome	Understanding better the sources of variation not explained by patients ' clinical characteristics may allow improved tailoring of therapy to patients most likely to benefit .

###10889563
study design	A multi-center longitudinal study .
background	To estimate the current trend in the incidence of first kidney stone among persons with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and to delineate the potential contributing factors .
other	Twenty-one Model SCI Care Systems throughout the United States .
population	A longitudinal cohort of 8314 subjects enrolled in the National SCI Database between 1986 and 1999 was used to estimate and compare the incidence of first kidney stone with a previous report of 5850 SCI patients injured between 1973 and 1982 .
other	A Cox regression analysis was performed to identify risk factors for stones , including age , race , gender , severity of injury , and method of urinary drainage .
other	These variables have been routinely collected , on a yearly basis , by the collaborating SCI centers .
outcome	During the 12 years , 6 months of case ascertainment , 286 incident stone cases were documented .
outcome	The risk was greatest during the first 3 months after injury ( 31 cases per 1000 person-years ) , quickly decreasing and leveling off later ( eight cases per 1000 person-years ) .
outcome	It was estimated that within 10 years after injury , 7 % of persons with SCI would develop their first kidney stone .
outcome	There was no evidence that the risk has changed over the past 25 years ( P = 0.96 ) .
outcome	During the first year post injury only , a significantly increased risk of stones was observed in Caucasians and persons aged 45 years or older .
outcome	A positive association of the severity of injury and requiring instrumentation for bladder emptying with kidney stones was found after the first year post injury .
outcome	The type of urinary drainage , including indwelling , intermittent , and condom catheterization , had no significant differential effect on stone formation at either risk period .
outcome	The highest risk of kidney stones is within the first few months post injury .
outcome	Little progress has been made in reducing this risk .
outcome	Although inability to control bladder function is an important risk factor after the first year post injury , for those who need bladder management , the type of urinary drainage does not appear to be an important factor in determining risk .

###9454313
background	Despite advances in medical knowledge and available methods of treating spinal problems , the costs these problems generate are growing in a constant and exponential manner in western countries .
background	Back pain is not different , commoner or more severe than in the past .
background	This raises the question whether present-day management , which often runs counter to current scientific evidence , is appropriate .
background	Practically speaking , so-called specific back pain is to be distinguished from nonspecific or common back pain .
background	The former arises from a precise lesion ( infectious , tumoral , inflammatory or traumatic ) , while the latter has no obvious underlying cause .
background	Fortunately this preliminary differentiation is usually possible on the basis of the history and clinical workup alone .
background	In this paper we deal solely with common back pain , as being by far the most frequent in everyday practice .
background	Once a specific origin has been ruled out , the chief aim should be earliest possible resumption of the patient 's normal activities .
background	Various methods , embracing drug treatment , physiotherapy , and in appropriate cases ergotherapy , are available for this purpose .
background	If this fails , the physician must react as rapidly as possible to prevent the condition becoming chronic .
background	Regard should be had for the various psychosocial factors which interfere with the healing process , and a method should be adopted which is no longer based on the classic biomedical model but on a bio-psycho-social approach as proposed by Waddell .
background	If necessary the patient should be referred to a specialist ( rheumatologist , rehabilitation , orthopedist etc ) .
background	Back pain is extremely widespread in the population at large and is a frequent reason why people consult a physician .
background	On these grounds the primary care physician has a key role to play in the initial workup and also in the acute , subacute or chronic stage of the evolution .
background	This review of the principles which should guide the practical approach to the back-pain patient is intended to aid the practitioner in his tasks of diagnosis and therapy .

###12637183
background	Spastic equinovarus deformity of the ankle in adults with acquired brain injury can severely limit the achievement of rehabilitation goals .
population	This study examined changes in triceps surae muscle extensibility , passive resistive torque and soleus stretch reflex responses in 10 adult brain injured subjects undergoing serial casting to correct ankle equinovarus deformity .
intervention	Goniometric measurement of maximal passive dorsiflexion was used to evaluate extensibility of the triceps surae muscles .
intervention	Computer controlled ankle dynamometry and surface electromyography were used to identify passive resistive torque and soleus stretch reflex onset angle in response to stretches at two velocities .
other	The mean casting period was 5 weeks .
outcome	Casting was discontinued in one subject due to failure to achieve measurable gain in ankle range over three consecutive cast changes .
outcome	Median improvements in maximal ankle dorsiflexion , with the knee flexed or extended , of 30 degrees and 15 degrees , respectively , were achieved in the remaining nine subjects ( p < 0.0001 ) .
outcome	The median passive ankle range in response to a displacing torque of 10 Nm increased 4.3 degrees over the intervention period ( p < 0.0001 ) .
outcome	Consistent soleus reflex activity in response to passive stretches at 25 degrees x s ( -1 ) was elicited in only four subjects .
outcome	A trend for the stretch reflex onset to move further into the available range was demonstrated in these subjects .
outcome	In the present study , serial casting contributed to significant change in triceps surae extensibility and passive resistive torque , corresponding with improved maximal passive ankle dorsiflexion range and an increase in the angle achieved with a displacin
outcome	Increased stretch reflex threshold was observed in some subjects .
outcome	The use of pre-determined outcome criteria and careful measurement of responses to this intervention were important to prevent premature discontinuation of casting when gains were slower than expected .

###10471102
background	This questionnaire study looked at the diagnostics tests and specimens used to screen for Chlamydia trachomatis in UK genitourinary medicine ( GUM ) clinics .
population	Replies were received from 70 % ( 185/265 ) of clinics .
outcome	Half used only one site to screen women .
outcome	One-third took anal swabs from patients who had anal sex and 10 % took oropharyngeal swabs from patients who had oral sex .
outcome	Immunoassays were used to screen men for chlamydia in 86 % of the clinics and women in 88 % .
outcome	Only 60 % of male and 62 % of female immunoassays were supplemented by a second test .
outcome	Six per cent of clinics used molecular technique ( MT ) to screen men and 4 % to screen women and 4 % were trying to acquire it .
outcome	Culture was not available to 58 % of clinics .
outcome	MT was not available to 81 % , 89 % of which was due to non provision locally and/or cost .
outcome	Only 7 % of clinicians thought that using MT for screening was unnecessary .
outcome	There were significant differences in the availability of the technique between large academic and small clinics .
outcome	A national review of GUM strategies to screen for C. trachomatis with adequate funding is urgently needed .

###16142210
background	Neuropathic pain is responsible for a significant amount of the morbidity associated with generalized and focal peripheral neuropathies .
background	It is a consequence of alterations in neuronal function , chemistry , and structure that occur secondary to nerve injury .
background	These manifestations of neuronal plasticity occur in the peripheral nerve , spinal cord , and brain .
background	A variety of agents from diverse pharmacologic classes , the so-called adjuvant analgesics , have been used to treat neuropathic pain .
background	These include antidepressants , first - and second-generation anticonvulsants , antiarrhythmic agents , topical agents , N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists , and opioid analgesics .
background	The use of these adjuvant analgesics , either alone or in combination , should result in the alleviation of neuropathic pain in most patients .
background	Recent advances in the understanding of pain mechanisms at multiple central nervous system levels should pave the way toward more effective treatment modalities .

###11225952
background	A variety of central nervous system injuries , diseases , and developmental deficits can lead to motor disorders that present complex mixtures of symptoms .
background	Those that have a fundamental similarity characterized by the appearance of exaggerated velocity-dependent resistance to the lengthening of skeletal muscles are called spasticity .
background	Reports based on clinical observations of motor disorders have and continue to provide the essential database of information regarding the range and distribution of unifying and discordant features of spasticity .
population	Laboratory investigations employing animal models of motor disorders following experimental lesions of the central nervous system have reproduced some of the neurophysiologic changes that accompany injury of the central nervous system in humans .
outcome	Those experimental lesions produced by spinal cord contusion/compression reproduce many of the histopathologic features displayed in traumatic injury of the human spinal cord as well .
outcome	Studies using this model have revealed not only changes in reflex threshold and amplitude but also alterations in fundamental rate-modulation processes that regulate reflex excitability during repetitive stimulation .
outcome	This report characterizes insights obtained from a laboratory investigation in search of fundamental mechanisms that contribute to the development of spasticity and provides a vantage point for understanding therapeutic strategies for treatment of spastic

###17175479
background	Transitional cell carcinoma ( TCC ) of the ovary is a rare , recently recognized , subtype of ovarian surface epithelial cancer .
other	We present a case of TCC of the ovary , managed by staging operation and followed by postoperative chemotherapy with carboplatin and cyclophosphamide .
population	A 67-year-old postmenopausal woman presented with a 2-year history of progressive enlargement of an abdominal mass .
other	Pelvic sonography and abdominal computed tomography showed a pelvic mass measuring 210 x 165 x 203 mm .
other	The serum CA-125 titer was also elevated ( 65.01 U/mL ) .
intervention	A staging operation with total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , infracolic omentectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection was performed .
other	After surgery , the pathologic report of the left ovarian tumor was TCC , grade 2-3 , stage IA .
intervention	The patient then underwent four cycles of postoperative chemotherapy with carboplatin and cyclophosphamide .
outcome	CA-125 levels declined to within the normal range after the first cycle of chemotherapy .
outcome	TCC of the ovary is a rare subtype of epithelial ovarian cancer .
outcome	It differs from malignant Brenner tumor by the absence of a benign or borderline Brenner component .
outcome	Surgical resection is the primary therapeutic approach , and patient outcomes after chemotherapy are better than for other types of common epithelial ovarian cancers .

###18698041
background	Previous conflicting results about the prognostic significance of estrogen receptor ( ER ) - beta in breast cancer may be explained by contribution of isoforms , of which five exist .
population	Our aim was to elucidate the prognostic significance of ERbeta1 , ERbeta2 , and ERbeta5 by immunohistochemistry in a large cohort of breast carcinomas with long-term follow-up .
intervention	Tissue microarrays were stained with ERbeta1 , ERbeta2 , and ERbeta5 antibodies and scored as percentage of positive tumor cells and using the Allred system .
other	Nuclear and cytoplasmic staining was evaluated and correlated with histopathologic characteristics , overall survival ( OS ) , and disease-free survival ( DFS ) .
outcome	Nuclear ERbeta2 and ERbeta5 , but not ERbeta1 , significantly correlated with OS ( P = 0.006 , P = 0.039 , and P = 0.099 , respectively ) , and ERbeta2 additionally with DFS ( P = 0.013 ) .
outcome	ERbeta2 also predicted response to endocrine therapy ( P = 0.036 ) ; correlated positively with ERalpha , progesterone receptor , androgen receptor , and BRCA1 ; and correlated inversely with metastasis and vascular invasion .
outcome	Tumors coexpressing ERbeta2 and ERalpha had better OS and DFS .
outcome	Cytoplasmic ERbeta2 expression , alone or combined with nuclear staining , predicted significantly worse OS .
outcome	Notably , patients with only cytoplasmic ERbeta2 expression had significantly worse outcome ( P = 0.0014 ) .
outcome	This is the first study elucidating the prognostic role of ERbeta1 , ERbeta2 , and ERbeta5 in a large breast cancer series .
outcome	ERbeta2 is a powerful prognostic indicator in breast cancer , but nuclear and cytoplasmic expression differentially affect outcome .
outcome	Measuring these in clinical breast cancer could provide a more comprehensive picture of patient outcome , complementing ERalpha .

###17057597
background	The political circus surrounding Terri Schiavo 's death is unlikely to repeat itself soon in other cases but the underlying event that precipitated the furor is a recurrent clinical problem-the problem of conflict among family members about withdrawing or
background	The laws of most states purport to solve this problem by automatic appointment of one person among the disputing family members .
background	However , this forced resolution of the family conflict does not clearly reflect the prior values of the incompetent patient and is likely to intensify rather than ease that conflict , providing no demonstrable benefit to the incompetent patient and complic
outcome	This article explores the benefits of a different legal rule that would require family consensus before life-prolonging treatment is withdrawn or withheld for an incompetent patient who has indicated no prior wishes regarding the resolution of family conf

###15600379
background	Recurrent depression poses a problem for up to 80 % of patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) during their lifetime .
background	Therefore , the optimal treatment goal established by the American Psychiatric Association and the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research is remission and virtual elimination of symptoms .
background	Patients who have a high risk of recurrence often require maintenance therapy and long-term treatment .
background	As a result , identification of antidepressants that are effective in maintaining remission in patients over the long-term and have acceptable tolerability profiles is important .
background	The efficacy of antidepressants in conferring full remission and long-term recovery is an important priority for clinicians .
other	Both selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) have been examined for use in long-term treatment of MDD .
intervention	Recently , 2 long-term ( 6 to 12 months ) , double-blind , placebo-controlled studies have shown that venlafaxine is effective in preventing relapse and recurrence .
outcome	While long-term , head-to-head studies comparing SNRIs with SSRIs are rare , a recent open-label study compared venlafaxine to 4 SSRIs ( fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , or citalopram ) in outpatients with MDD .
outcome	The results show that the SNRI venlafaxine is comparable to the SSRIs in terms of remission rates , and venlafaxine may bring patients to remission earlier than SSRIs .
outcome	Long-term treatment at maximally tolerated doses is also associated with similar incidence of common adverse events between venlafaxine and placebo and tolerability comparable to SSRIs .
outcome	Thus , there is increasing evidence that venlafaxine and SSRIs are effective and well tolerated in long-term therapy .
outcome	While it is unclear from the data if continued treatment with SNRIs confers advantages over SSRIs due to an early onset of remission , further studies will provide valuable insights into the efficacy of SNRIs and SSRIs in maintenance therapy .

###9316058
background	This is the first report of delayed cervical epidural hemorrhage caused by an onlay silastic graft placed over the dura after laminectomy .
background	There are several reports of intracranial hemorrhage associated with silastic implants in the literature .
background	A 49-year-old woman suddenly developed severe neck pain and quadriplegia during sexual intercourse .
background	A C5-C7 laminectomy had been performed 17 years earlier for cervical stenosis .
intervention	Magnetic resonance imaging showed an epidural mass compressing the cord at the level of the previous laminectomy .
intervention	Laminectomy was performed within 5 hours of symptom onset .
intervention	Postoperatively , the patient regained leg strength .
intervention	After 2 months of physical therapy , she had minimal residual leg rigidity and returned to work .
other	At surgery , the cervical cord was compressed by a solid fibrous scar surrounding a silastic onlay graft and the dura .
other	An epidural hematoma was beneath the silastic implant .
other	The dense scar tissue , hematoma , and silastic implant were removed .
outcome	Bleeding associated with silastic sheets starts with movement of this nonadherent implant .
outcome	The movement disrupts the underlying fine vessels on the surface of an encasing connective tissue membrane .
outcome	Overgrowth of this membrane can cause mass effect and simulate a tumor , even without associated bleeding , within weeks .
outcome	Delayed hemorrhage is more common .
outcome	We recommend removal of these implants electively , especially if a thick membrane surrounding the dura is detected with postcontrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging .

###18766106
background	To determine whether persistent metabolic dysfunction in normal-appearing frontal lobe tissue is correlated with long-term tissue atrophy .
study design	Prospective monitoring with retrospective data analysis .
other	Single-center academic neurointensive care unit .
population	Fifteen patients with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury ( Glasgow Coma Scale score 3-12 ) .
other	None .
other	Hourly cerebral microdialysis was performed for the initial 96 hrs after trauma to determine extracellular levels of glucose , glutamate , glycerol , lactate , and pyruvate in normal appearing frontal lobes .
outcome	Six months after injury , the anatomical outcome was assessed by measures of global and regional cerebral atrophy using volumetric brain magnetic resonance imaging .
outcome	The lactate/pyruvate ratio was elevated > 40 after traumatic brain injury in most patients , with a mean percent time of 32 + / - 29 % of hours monitored .
outcome	At 6 months after traumatic brain injury , there was a mean frontal lobe atrophy of 12 + / - 11 % and global brain atrophy of 8.5 + / - 4.5 % .
outcome	The percentage of time of elevated lactate/pyruvate ratio correlated with the extent of frontal lobe brain atrophy ( r = -.56 , p < 0.01 ) , but not global brain atrophy ( r = -.31 , p = 0.20 ) .
outcome	The predictive effect of lactate/pyruvate ratio was independent of patient age , Glasgow Coma Scale score , and volume of frontal lobe contusion .
outcome	Persistent metabolic crisis , as reflected by an elevated lactate/pyruvate ratio , in normal appearing posttraumatic frontal lobe , is predictive of the degree of tissue atrophy at 6 months .

###9747834
background	To investigate efficacy of three single dose radiation therapy ( RT ) regimens in the treatment of painful bone metastasis .
intervention	Patient self-assessment by using pain chart enabled evaluation of response to treatment that consisted of either one of the three single fractions of 4 Gy ( group I ; n = 109 ) , 6 Gy ( group II ; n = 108 ) , or 8 Gy ( group III ; n = 110 ) .
outcome	Patients in groups II and III had higher complete response rate than those in group I , but not significantly , and with no difference between group II and III .
outcome	However , both patients in group II ( 73 % ) and group III ( 78 % ) had significantly higher overall response rates when compared to those observed in group I ( 59 % ) ( I vs II , p = 0.025 ; I vs III , p = 0.0019 ) , and with no difference between groups II and III ( p = 0.39 )
outcome	Patients in group III had shortest time to the occurrence of any pain relief which was significantly better than those observed in group I ( Welch 's t-test , p = 0.012 ) , with no difference between group I and II and group II and III , respectively .
outcome	There was no difference between the three treatment groups in duration of response and retreatment rate .
outcome	No effect of histology or metastatic site treated was found .
outcome	No pathological fractures or spinal cord compressions were observed during the 8 weeks post-RT .
outcome	Results of this study seem to confirm that 8 Gy could be considered as probably `` lowest '' optimal single fraction RT in the treatment of painful bone metastasis , although single fraction RT of 4 Gy should not be easily discarded due to its applic
outcome	Since single fraction RT of 6 Gy achieved results not different from that obtained with 8 Gy , further studies are warranted in order to get more informations about `` lowest '' optimal single fraction RT in the treatment of painful bone metastasis .

###12448387
background	Obesity is now one of our major public health problems .
background	Effective and acceptable treatment options are needed .
background	The Lap-Band system is placed laparoscopically and allows adjustment of the level of gastric restriction .
population	A prospective study of 709 severely obese patients was conducted over a 6-year period at a university-based multidisciplinary referral center .
intervention	After extensive preoperative evaluation , patients with a body mass index > 35 were treated by Lap-Band placement .
other	Close follow-up with progressive adjustment of gastric restriction continued permanently .
other	Medical co-morbidities were monitored as part of comprehensive prospective data collection .
outcome	There have been no deaths perioperatively or during follow-up .
outcome	Significant perioperative adverse events occurred in 1.2 % only .
outcome	Reoperation has been needed for prolapse ( slippage ) in 12.5 % , erosion of the band into the stomach in 2.8 % and for tubing breaks in 3.6 % .
outcome	A steady progression of weight loss has occurred through the duration of the study with 52 + / - 19 % EWL at 24 months ( n = 333 ) , 53 + / - 22 % EWL at 36 months ( n = 264 ) , 52 + / - 24 % EWL at 48 months ( n = 108 ) , 54 + / - 24 % EWL at 60 months ( n = 30 ) , and 57 + / - 1
outcome	Major improvements have occurred in diabetes , asthma , gastroesophageal reflux , dyslipidemia , sleep apnea and depression .
outcome	Quality of life as measured by Rand SF-36 shows highly significant improvement .
outcome	Placement of the Lap-Band system provides safe and effective control of severe obesity .
outcome	The effect on weight loss is durable and is associated with major improvement in health and quality of life .
outcome	It has the potential to provide a broadly acceptable option for this common and serious disease .

###10141725
background	Frequently , when the acute phase of a frail older person 's illness resolves , the patient is too weak to function independently and can not be discharged from hospital .
background	Acute care staff often lack the ability and resources to deal adequately with these situations .
background	A program of transitional ( or subacute ) care at Ontario 's Mississauga Hospital has been shown to fill this gap in the continuum of care by improving the functional level of frail elders and ensuring better bed utilization .

###8927414
population	Our experience with intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 in spinal cord injured patients with neurogenic erectile dysfunction included 15 men .
outcome	They received testing dosage starting from 5 micrograms with increasing dosage ( maximum 20 micrograms ) to achieve a rigid erection of Schramek 's grade 5 and lasting for at least 20 min .
outcome	All of them had achieved functional erection adequate for coitus after treatment except one patient who had been proved to have venogenic impotence .
outcome	We found that intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 had significantly improved the erectile condition .
outcome	No systemic side effect or any other complication was noted except that pain at the injection site was complained of in two patients with incomplete lesion .

###8327079
population	The case of a 36-year-old man who sought treatment of right facial myokymia and spastic paretic facial contracture is reported .
background	Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a tumor located in the right cerebellar peduncle and the right dorsal pons bulging into the fourth ventricle .
outcome	After microsurgical partial resection of the mass , which was verified histologically as an anaplastic glioma , facial myokymia initially ceased .
outcome	The vermicular rippling movements were less intense upon recurrence and could be controlled by low-dose dexamethasone in the further course , when magnetic resonance imaging showed an interstitial pontine edema after percutaneous radiation therapy .
outcome	It is assumed that facial myokymia and spastic paretic facial contracture were generated by ectopic activity due to alterations in the microenvironment at the intrapontine portion of the axons of the seventh nerve caused by the compressive effect of the t

###7110507
population	The effects of single oral administrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( imipramine and desipramine ) , an atypical antidepressant ( nomifensine ) , known anorexic agents , haloperidol , and diazepam on food intake were compared in Sprague-Dawley rats over a 4-d
outcome	The tricyclic antidepressants produced decreases in food intake during the total 4-day test period following their administration .
outcome	In contrast , the anorexic agents ( d-amphetamine , cocaine , mazindol , fenfluramine and quipazine ) , and nomifensine , and haloperidol produced decreases in food intake only on their administration .
outcome	Diazepam produced an increase in food intake only on the day of its decrease food intake , this model appears to show some specificity for tricyclic antidepressants .

###15637647
background	Approximately 10 % of patients with cancer develop brain metastases .
background	Although usually appearing late in the course of the disease , the brain metastasis may be present before the primary cancer has been identified and may present as a single lesion or as multiple lesions .
background	The diagnostic and therapeutic approach depends on the number and location of brain lesions and the stage of the cancer .
background	Patients with brain metastases are rarely cured .
background	However , appropriate treatment can improve both the quality and duration of the patient 's life .
background	Treatment must be directed not only at the brain metastasis ( definitive care ) , but also at a multitude of other symptoms that plague patients with cancer and brain metastases ( supportive care ) .
outcome	Judicious selection of pharmacological agents can effectively treat many serious symptoms in patients with brain metastases , but injudicious selection of pharmacological agents , through side effects , may make the patients ' quality of life worse .
outcome	This article reviews some aspects of both definitive and supportive care with particular attention to the side effects of some commonly used pharmacological agents .

###15373378
background	There is significant controversy surrounding attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
background	While the existence of this disorder is generally accepted , debate continues in relation to aspects of assessment , as well as the effectiveness and choice of treatment options and their continuation into adult life .
background	Management is further complicated as people with ADHD often have chaotic lives which impedes medication compliance and motivation to continue treatment vacillates .
background	Concern also exists over the misuse of amphetamine-like medications by some patients .
study design	This case study does not provide comprehensive information on current diagnosis and ADHD treatment guidelines , but explores the issues and management role of general practitioners treating patients with ADHD .
outcome	The diagnosis of ADHD is common , and many patients are managed using a range of social and behavioural interventions that are commonly combined with pharmacotherapies ( provided in the main by psychiatrists and paediatricians ) .
outcome	However , while specialists may appropriately choose not to treat where a diagnosis is unclear , or discontinue treatment for reasons such as doubtful response to treatment , possible medication misuse , concurrent illicit drug use or poor motivation , GPs fre
outcome	When the specialist formulation suggests there is little to gain from further treatment , the GP is likely to be the sole health professional remaining engaged in support and ongoing management .

###11792611
background	The `` Standards , Options and Recommendations '' ( SOR ) project , started in 1993 , is a collaboration between the French National Federation of Comprehensive Cancer Centers ( FNCLCC ) , the 20 French Cancer Centers and specialists from French Public Univ
background	The main objective is the development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of health care and outcome of cancer patients .
background	The methodology is based on literature review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of experts , with feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery .
population	To define , according to the definitions of the Standards , Options and Recommendations project , the characteristics of the main tumor markers in colorectal cancer and their potential role in the management of patients with this malignancy .
other	Data were identified by searching Medline and the personal reference lists of members of the expert groups .
other	Once the guidelines were defined , the document was submitted for review to 117 independent reviewers , and to the medical committees of the 20 French Cancer Centers .
outcome	The main recommendations for the tumor markers in colorectal cancer are : 1 ) The carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) is the reference serum marker ( standard ) .
outcome	2 ) All the analyses for a given patient must be performed in the same laboratory , using the same technique ( standard , expert agreement ) .
outcome	3 ) CEA or CA 19-9 should not be used for screening or diagnosis ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
other	4 )
outcome	High initial serum concentration of CEA is of bad predictive value ( standard , level of evidence C ) .
outcome	CEA is an independent prognostic factor of survival in colorectal cancers with lymph node metastases ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
outcome	5 ) CEA is the most sensitive biological parameter for the screening of hepatic metastases ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
outcome	6 ) CEA serum concentration before palliative chemotherapy is an independent prognostic factor of survival ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
outcome	The combination of CEA assay with imagery techniques and clinical examination can help monitor the response to palliative chemotherapy ( standard ) , in particular in non measurable disease ( standard , expert agreement ) .
outcome	7 ) In 65 % of the cases , CEA is the first indicator of relapse ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
outcome	CEA is the choice marker for monitoring patients with colorectal cancer ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
other	8 )
outcome	A sustained biological follow-up including CEA assay can be used to predict the operability of recurring tumors ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
outcome	Nevertheless , no survival advantage has been shown ( standard ) .

###10486193
background	This study was undertaken to determine if an AMPA ( LY215490 ) or an NMDA ( MK-801 ) glutamatergic receptor antagonist can reduce urinary tract dysfunctions related to detrusor hyperreflexia and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia in awake , spinal cord-injured ( SC
population	Experiments were performed on female Sprague-Dawley rats in which the spinal cord was completely transected at T ( 8-10 ) level , 2-3 weeks prior to performing an intravesical continuous infusion cystometrogram ( CMG ) .
other	Bladder volume threshold ( VT ) for inducing voiding and voiding efficiency ( VE ) were determined by measuring voided volumes and residual volumes ( RV ) .
intervention	After control CMGs were performed , cumulative intravenous doses of LY215490 ( 0.1 , 1 , and 10 mg/kg ) or MK-801 ( 0.03 , 0.3 , and 3 mg/kg ) were administered at 120-min intervals .
outcome	03 and 0.3 mg/kg ) did not affect any parameters .
outcome	A large dose ( 10 mg/kg ) of LY215490 decreased maximal voiding pressure ( MVP ) by 27 % and increased RV by 119 % and VT by 58 % but did not decrease VE .
outcome	The highest cumulative dose ( 3 mg/kg ) of MK-801 significantly increased RV by 134 % and VT by 44 % and markedly decreased VE by 60 % and MVP by 18 % .
outcome	The effects of LY215490 to reduce MVP and increase VT without changing VE suggest that an AMPA receptor antagonist might be useful in treating detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia and bladder hypertrophy after SCI .
outcome	The effect of MK-801 to markedly reduce VE indicates that NMDA receptor antagonists may exacerbate neurogenic bladder dysfunction in SCI patients .

###8816635
background	To present a successful outcome of an IVF cycle complicated by failure to produce a sperm sample on the morning of oocyte retrieval .
study design	Case report .
other	Hospital-based IVF clinic .
population	A couple suffering secondary infertility undergoing their first IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) cycle .
intervention	Fine-needle testicular biopsy for sperm retrieval .
other	Sperm retrieval , fertilization , pregnancy .
outcome	Sufficient spermatozoa were obtained for ICSI .
outcome	Ten metaphase II oocytes were injected with two embryos being transferred fresh and four cryopreserved .
outcome	A single fetal heart was confirmed at 6-week sonar .
outcome	Testicular aspiration of sperm for ICSI is a simple , inexpensive , and effective means of rescuing an IVF cycle in which the male partner unexpectedly has been unable to produce a sperm sample on the morning of oocyte collection .

###17632393
study design	A retrospective review .
other	The purpose of this study is to document a series of cases of neurologic deficit following percutaneous vertebral stabilization , to identify patterns of neurologic injury , and to describe potential methods for avoiding these injuries .
background	Percutaneous vertebral stabilization procedures , including vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty , have become a widely used for the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures , primary and metastatic vertebral tumors , and traumatic burst fractures .
background	Despite an increasing array of indications , there have been few reports of adverse events .
background	Neurologic complications associated with vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty have been described previously as case reports and have generally been considered as infrequent and minor in severity .
population	The clinical course of 14 patients with documented loss of neurologic function following percutaneous vertebral cement augmentation was retrospectively reviewed .
other	The average patient age was 74.9 years ( range , 46-88 years ) with 3 male and 11 female patients .
outcome	Four patients underwent a vertebroplasty procedure while 10 were treated with kyphoplasty .
outcome	Six patients developed neurologic deficits acutely ( < 24 hours of procedure ) .
outcome	The remaining 8 patients developed neurologic symptoms at an average of 37.1 days ( range , 3-112 days ) postprocedure .
outcome	Neurologic deficits were recorded as ASIA A in 4 patients , ASIA B in 2 patients , ASIA C in 1 patient , and ASIA D in 7 patients .
outcome	Twelve of 14 patients ( 85.7 % ) required revision open surgical intervention for treatment of their neurologic injury .
outcome	Percutaneous vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty have been reported to be safe options for the treatment of painful osteoporotic vertebral fractures .
outcome	Although complications are infrequent , there remains the potential for catastrophic neurologic injury .
outcome	Physicians performing these procedures need to be aware of these potential complications and be prepared to respond in an emergent manner ( surgically ) if a need arises .

###11575593
population	The contribution of the striatum to category learning was examined by having patients with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) and matched controls solve categorization problems in which the optimal rule was linear or nonlinear using the perceptual categorization ta
other	Traditional accuracy-based analyses , as well as quantitative model-based analyses were performed .
background	Unlike accuracy-based analyses , the model-based analyses allow one to quantify and separate the effects of categorization rule learning from variability in the trial-by-trial application of the participant 's rule .
outcome	When the categorization rule was linear , PD patients showed no accuracy , categorization rule learning , or rule application variability deficits .
outcome	Categorization accuracy for the PD patients was associated with their performance on a test believed to be sensitive to frontal lobe functioning .
outcome	In contrast , when the categorization rule was nonlinear , the PD patients showed accuracy , categorization rule learning , and rule application variability deficits .
outcome	Furthermore , categorization accuracy was not associated with performance on the test of frontal lobe functioning .
outcome	Implications for neuropsychological theories of categorization learning are discussed .

###17335974
background	Neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury is not well understood and is difficult to treat .
background	One possible cause is mismatch between motor commands and sensory feedback .
population	This two-part study in five paraplegic patients investigated whether a visual illusion aimed to correct this mismatch reduces pain .
intervention	In study 1 , patients undertook three conditions : ( i ) virtual walking : with a mirror placed in front of a screen , patients aligned their own upper body with a film of a lower body walking .
intervention	Patients imagined walking and ` watched themselves ' walk ; ( ii ) guided imagery ; ( iii ) watching a film .
other	One patient withdrew from virtual walking because of distress .
outcome	For all patients , the mean ( 95 % CI ) decrease in pain ( 100 mm VAS ) was 42 mm ( approximately 65 % ) ( 11-73 mm ) for virtual walking , 18 mm ( 4-31 mm ) for guided imagery and 4mm ( -3 to 11 mm ) for watching the film .
outcome	Mean ( 95 % CI ) time to return to pre-task pain was 34.9 min ( 20.1-49 .8 min ) for virtual walking ; 13.9 min ( -0.9 to 28.8 min ) for the guided imagery and 16.3 min ( 1.5-31 .2 min ) for the film .
outcome	To investigate its clinical utility , four patients underwent virtual walking every weekday for 3 weeks .
outcome	Mean ( 95 % CI ) decrease in pain was 53 mm ( 45-61 mm ) at post training and 43 mm ( 27-58 mm ) at 3-month follow-up .
outcome	Virtual walking may be a viable treatment for pain after spinal cord injury .
outcome	A clinical trial seems warranted .

###10164045
background	Choosing optimal health insurance coverage involves a trade-off between the gain from risk reduction and the deadweight loss from moral hazard .
background	This paper examines this trade-off empirically by estimating both the demand for health insurance and the demand for health services .
background	It relies on data from a randomized controlled trial of cost-sharing 's effects on the use of health services and on the health status for a general , non-elderly population .

###17550722
background	To observe the effect and safety of one-stage single balloon multiple expansions percutaneous kyphoplasty ( PKP ) in treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compressive fracture ( OVCF ) and spinal tumor .
population	One-stage single balloon multiple expansions PKP was performed on 18 patients , 5 males and 13 females , aged 68.77 ( 44 - 80 ) , with 45 vertebrae , including 11 case of OVCF ( with 29 diseased vertebrae ) , 11 cases of multiple vertebral fracture ( with 19 diseas
other	Pain relief and functional recovery were evaluated with visual analogue pain scale ( VAS ) and Oswestry disability index ( ODI ) scaling , and restoration of vertebral height and Cobb angle were evaluated by X-ray examination .
other	Follow-up was conducted by telephone survey or clinic consults for 12.3 months ( 6 - 18 months ) .
outcome	Operation was successfully performed on all patients with an operative time of 29.3 min ( 55 - 127 min ) per vertebra .
outcome	The average pressure of the balloon expansion was 165 Psi ( 87 - 210 Psi ) , and the average balloon expanded volume was 3.25 ml ( 1.5 - 4 ml ) .
outcome	A balloon was expanded 2 approximately 5 times in one operation with the average of 2.94 expanded times .
outcome	The bone cement volume injected was 3.95 ml ( 2 - 8.5 ml ) per vertebra .
outcome	Epidural cement leakage was seen in 1 vertebra in 1 case and paraspinal leakage was seen in two vertebrae in 1 case .
outcome	The VAS and ODI scoring of these patients were both decreased significantly after operation .
outcome	Both the anterior height and midline height of vertebrae were significantly improved .
outcome	The pain relief and functional recovery were substantial and maintained to the last follow-up without any re-collapse or adjacent level fracture .
outcome	one-stage single balloon multiple expansions PKP is effective , economic and safe in treatment of multi-level OVCF and spinal tumor .

###15341593
background	Functional recovery after large excision of dorsal roots is absent because of both the limited regeneration capacity of the transected root , and the inability of regenerating sensory fibers to traverse the dorsal root entry zone .
population	In this study , bioresorbable guidance conduits were used to repair 6-mm dorsal root lesion gaps in rats , while neurotrophin-encoding adenoviruses were used to elicit regeneration into the spinal cord .
intervention	Polyester conduits with or without microfilament bundles were implanted between the transected ends of lumbar dorsal roots .
intervention	Four weeks later , adenoviruses encoding NGF or GFP were injected into the spinal cord along the entry zone of the damaged dorsal roots .
outcome	Eight weeks after injury , nerve regeneration was observed through both types of implants , but those containing microfilaments supported more robust regeneration of calcitonin gene-related peptide ( CGRP ) - positive nociceptive axons .
outcome	NGF overexpression induced extensive regeneration of CGRP ( + ) fibers into the spinal cord from implants showing nerve repair .
outcome	Animals that received conduits containing microfilaments combined with spinal NGF virus injections showed the greatest recovery in nociceptive function , approaching a normal level by 7-8 weeks .
outcome	This recovery was reversed by recutting the dorsal root through the centre of the conduit , demonstrating that regeneration through the implant , and not sprouting of intact spinal fibers , restored sensory function .
outcome	This study demonstrates that a combination of PNS guidance conduits and CNS neurotrophin therapy can promote regeneration and restoration of sensory function after severe dorsal root injury .

###10534603
population	In the present study , chronic constrictive injury ( CCI model ) of the sciatic nerve or tight ligation of L5 and L6 spinal nerves ( Chung model ) produced both dynamic and static components of mechanical allodynia in rats .
intervention	The two responses were detected , respectively , by lightly stroking the hind paw with cotton wool or application of pressure using von Frey hairs .
outcome	Animals with spinal nerve ligation developed both types of responses at a faster rate compared to animals with the CCI .
outcome	Morphine ( 1-3 mg/kg , s.c. ) dose-dependently blocked static but not dynamic allodynia .
outcome	In contrast , pregabalin ( previously S-isobutylgaba and CI-1008 ) dose-dependently ( 3-30 mg/kg , p.o. ) blocked both types of allodynia .
outcome	In CCI animals , two administrations of capsaicin ( 100 microg/50 microl ) into the plantar surface of the ipsilateral paw at 1-h intervals blocked the maintenance of thermal hyperalgesia without affecting either static or dynamic allodynia .
outcome	The similar administration of a further two doses of capsaicin into the same animals blocked the maintenance of static allodynia without affecting the dynamic response .
outcome	These data indicate that thermal hyperalgesia , static and dynamic allodynia are respectively signalled by C - , Adelta - and Abeta/capsaicin insensitive Adelta - primary sensory neurones .
outcome	It is suggested that pregabalin possesses a superior antiallodynic profile than morphine and may represent a novel class of therapeutic agents for the treatment of neuropathic pain .

###11478593
population	To examine the effects of altering the fatty acid ( FA ) composition of intravenous ( IV ) lipid emulsions on pulmonary vascular resistance ( PVR ) and thromboxane production , we studied three groups of newborn piglets after three days of either sow 's milk ( mil
outcome	At baseline , and during hypoxia at 20 min and 2 h , cardiac output ( Q ) was measured , PVR calculated and plasma levels of a prostacyclin metabolite ( 6-keto-PgF1alpha ) and thromboxane B2 ( TxB2 ) were measured .
other	Fatty acid composition of the lung phospholipids was analyzed .
outcome	There was an exaggerated increase in PVR and decrease in Q during prolonged hypoxia in the TPN-SBO group as compared with the other two groups .
outcome	There was no difference in PVR and Q between the milk and TPN-FO groups .
outcome	FA of lung phospholipids reflected the high dietary level of long chain n-3 FA in the TPN-FO group .
outcome	However , no differences in plasma levels of 6-keto-PgF1alpha or TxB2 were found .
outcome	Intravenous emulsions made from SBO reduced cardiac output and increased pulmonary vascular resistance in the hypoxic newborn piglet , whereas iv FO emulsions did not .
outcome	When subjects with pulmonary hypertension are receiving TPN iv SBO may be detrimental ; iv FO may be beneficial , giving similar responses as in a milk-fed subject .

###16507293
background	To evaluate the effect of group educational interventions in type-2 diabetes patients .
background	To analyse what kind of group intervention has the best long-term effects .
study design	Systematic review .
other	Review of electronic data bases CENTRAL , MEDLINE , EMBASE , CINAHL , and PASCAL , and of the bibliographic references of the studies selected .
other	Contacts with experts to locate non-published articles .
other	Selection of studies .
population	Randomised clinical studies with controls and quasi-experimental studies that evaluate group education interventions aimed at type-2 diabetes patients over 18 years old .

###12025959
background	There are two bradykinin receptor subtypes , designated B1 and B2 .
background	Whilst both have been implicated in nociception , it is believed that there is a low level of constitutive expression of B1 receptors and that their expression is induced by inflammation or tissue damage .
population	The present study investigated the role of B1 receptors in spinal nociceptive processing using an in vivo electrophysiological assay in decerebrate , spinalized rabbits , a species that shares close B1 receptor homology with the human receptor .
intervention	Inflammation was induced in the paw by an injection of complete Freund 's adjuvant at least 1 h before recording single motor unit activity of the semitendinous/biceps femoris muscle in response to a noxious pinch of the foot .
intervention	Control animals received an intraplantar injection of saline .
intervention	The peptide B1 receptor antagonist B9858 was administered i.v. and caused dose-dependent and complete inhibition of the nociceptive spinal reflex ( ID50 = 1 mg x kg ( -1 ) ) .
outcome	In control animals without paw inflammation , B9858 had no effect .
outcome	These findings are consistent with other evidence that peptide B1 receptor antagonists inhibit spinal nociceptive reflexes only after induction of B1 receptors by inflammation and support the potential therapeutic utility of B1 receptor antagonists as ana

###15024399
background	Epidemiological studies suggest that adiposity in children may be associated with a reduced level of physical activity .
background	Children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) are physically hyperactive as of early childhood and have been shown to exhibit higher levels of motor activity than normal .
population	The aim of our study was to assess if the prevalence of overweight and obesity is lower in a population of boys with ADHD in comparison with the German healthy male reference population of the same age .
other	Patients were investigated from 1999 until 2001 upon referral to the inpatient and outpatient unit of the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry of the University of Aachen .
population	A total of 97 male patients ( mean age 10 + / -2 y ) with a diagnosis of ADHD according the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM-IV ) , who were free of potentially orexigenic medication and who had no further comorbid diagnosis apart from
other	BMI standard deviation scores ( BMI-SDS ) were calculated and compared to age-adapted reference value of the German population .
outcome	Patients ' mean BMI-SDS was significantly higher than the age-adapted reference values of the German population ( P = 0.038 ) .
outcome	Our sample included significantly more subjects than expected with a BMI > or = 90th percentile ( 19.6 % , P < 0.001 ) and > or = 97th percentile ( 7.2 % , P = 0.007 ) .
outcome	Surprisingly , being ` hyperactive ' in the sense of the DSM-IV diagnosis of ADHD does not prevent the development or persistence of overweight and obesity in children .
outcome	The examination of these children might be a helpful approach in the investigation of the relationship between obesity and its contributing psychological and behavioural factors .

###11160435
background	Recovery of urinary tract function after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is important in its own right and may also serve as a model for studying mechanisms of functional recovery after injury in the CNS .
background	Normal micturition requires coordinated activation of smooth muscle of the bladder ( detrusor ) and striated muscle of the external urethral sphincter ( EUS ) that is controlled by spinal and supraspinal circuitry .
population	We used a clinically relevant rat model of thoracic spinal cord contusion injury to examine the effect of varying the degree of residual supraspinal connections on chronic detrusor-EUS coordination .
outcome	Urodynamic evaluation at 8 weeks after SCI showed that detrusor contractions of the bladder recovered similarly in groups of rats injured with a 10 gm weight dropped 12.5 , 25 , or 50 mm onto the spinal cord .
outcome	In contrast , the degree of coordinated activation of the EUS varied with the severity of initial injury and the degree of preservation of white matter at the injury site .
outcome	The 12.5 mm SCI resulted in the sparing of 20 % of the white matter at the injury site and complete recovery of detrusor-EUS coordination .
outcome	In more severely injured rats , the chronic recovery of detrusor-EUS coordination was very incomplete and correlated to decreased innervation of lower motoneurons by descending control pathways and their increased levels of mRNA for glutamate receptor subu
outcome	These results show that the extent of recovery of detrusor-EUS coordination depends on injury severity and the degree of residual connections with brainstem control centers .

###19284667
background	The aim of the study was to evaluate factors influencing quality of life ( QOL ) in Moroccan postmenopausal women with osteoporotic vertebral fracture assessed by the Arabic version of ECOS 16 questionnaire .
population	357 postmenopausal women were included in this study .
other	The participants underwent bone mineral density ( BMD ) measurements by DXA of the lumbar spine and the total hip as well as X-ray examination of the thoraco-lumbar spine to identify subclinical vertebral fractures .
other	Patients were asked to complete a questionnaire on clinical and sociodemographic parameters , and osteoporosis risk factors .
other	The Arabic version of the ECOS16 ( Assessment of health related quality of life in osteoporosis questionnaire ) was used to assess quality of life .
other	The mean age was 58 + / - 7.8 years , and the mean BMI was 28.3 + / - 4.8 kg/m2 .
other	One hundred and eight women ( 30.1 % ) were osteoporotic and 46.7 % had vertebral fractures .
other	Most were categorized as Grade1 ( 75 % ) .
outcome	Three independent factors were associated with a poor quality of life : low educational level ( p = 0,01 ) , vertebral fracture ( p = 0,03 ) , and history of peripheral fracture ( p = 0,006 ) .
outcome	Worse QOL was observed in the group with vertebral fracture in all domains except `` pain '' : Physical functioning ( p = 0,002 ) ; Fear of illness ( p = 0,001 ) ; and Psychosocial functioning ( p = 0,007 ) .
outcome	The number of fractures was a determinant of a low QOL , as indicated by an increased score in physical functioning ( p = 0,01 ) , fear of illness ( p = 0,007 ) , and total score ( p = 0,01 ) after adjusting on age and educational level .
outcome	Patients with higher Genant score had low QOL in these two domains too ( p = 0,002 ; p = 0,001 respectively ) , and in the total score ( p = 0,01 ) after adjusting on age and educational level .
outcome	Our current data showed that the quality of life assessed by the Arabic version of the ECOS 16 questionnaire is decreased in post menopausal women with prevalent vertebral fractures , with the increasing number and the severity of vertebral fractures .

###15065383
background	At the beginning of 1995 Israel implemented a health reform .
background	A new National Health Insurance Law came into effect , mandating compulsory health insurance for all Israeli citizens .
background	However , while the individual 's right to health services is grounded in law , the basket of services provided under this law includes no components that can contribute to oral health of the population .
background	The country 's oral health system has always had minimal government involvement and relies largely on private funding .
background	As such , it can serve as an appropriate model for observing the impact of such policy on economically weak population groups , and on the extent of system equity .
background	The research goals were to examine gaps among various populations in service accessibility , knowledge and attitudes , preventive health behaviors , and perceived health within this unique oral healthcare system .
population	The study population consisted of residents of Israel aged 22 + and living in the community -- approximately 4.5 million persons .
outcome	The data were gathered through telephone interviews based on a random sampling of the computerized telephone directory of Israel 's domestic telephone company .
outcome	The response rate was 82 % , with 1,067 respondents representing the adult population of Israel .
outcome	The current study found significant gaps among income groups for knowledge , attitudes , preventive oral-health behaviors and perceived oral-health .
outcome	The findings can serve as a red flag for over-reliance on private funding in the health system , and may indicate the need for rethinking about the current oral healthcare policy in Israel .

###17211783
background	The aim of this study was to evaluate the evidence supporting the use of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ECMO ) in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia ( CDH ) and severe respiratory failure .
other	Medline , Embase , ISI Current Contents and Biosis databases were searched using a defined strategy .
other	Case reports and opinion articles were excluded .
study design	We performed : 1 ) a systematic review of non randomised studies comparing mortality when ECMO was not available with a period when ECMO was available .
other	Mortality was classified as `` early '' ( before hospital discharge ) and `` late '' ( after discharge ) .
other	Patients were classified as `` ECMO '' and `` non-ECMO '' candidates according to criteria reported by the authors ; 2 ) a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) comparing ECMO and conventional mechanical ventilation ( CMV ) .
other	Differences in mortality are reported as relative risk ( RR ) and 95 % confidence intervals .
outcome	A ) SYSTEMATIC REVIEW : 658 studies and 21 ( 2043 patients ) fulfilled the entry criteria .
outcome	Both early ( RR 0.60 [ 0.51-0 .70 ] ; p < 0.001 ) and late mortality ( RR 0.63 [ 0.53-0 .73 ] ; p < 0.001 ) were significantly lower when ECMO was available than when ECMO was unavailable .
outcome	This difference in mortality was observed in `` ECMO candidates '' ( RR 0.46 [ 0.32-0 .68 ] ; p < 0.001 ) but not in `` non-ECMO candidates '' ( RR 0.80 [ 0.58-1 .10 ] ; p = 0.17 ) .
outcome	B ) META-ANALYSIS : 3 trials comparing ECMO and conventional ventilation were identified which included 39 infants with CDH .
outcome	The early mortality was significantly lower with ECMO compared to CMV ( RR 0.73 [ 95 % CI 0.55-0 .99 ] ; p < 0.04 ) , however , late mortality was similar in the two groups ( RR 0.83 [ 0.66-1 .05 ] ; p = 0.12 ) .
outcome	Non randomised studies suggest a reduction in mortality with ECMO .
outcome	However , differences in the indications for ECMO and improvements in other treatment modalities may contribute to this reduction .
outcome	The meta-analysis of RCTs indicates a reduction in early mortality with ECMO but no long-term benefit .
outcome	A large RCT in infants with CDH and severe respiratory failure is warranted .

###12043753
background	Although there has been an increased interest in health care delivery for rural community populations , concerns remain regarding the lack of access to primary health care and specialty services ( such as palliative care ) , particularly in rural areas that a
other	This survey was conducted to examine the perceptions of palliative care services in rural communities and toward identifying perceived barriers that interfere with accessing palliative care services .
population	In conducting the study , personnel from various disciplines throughout the Community Cancer Care ( CCC ) network ( the largest private provider of oncology services in Indiana ) completed a survey that assessed their perceptions of the strengths and weaknesse
outcome	These responses , which indicate discrepancies in perceptions among staff within sites , suggest problems of integration of palliative care in given locations .
outcome	Results revealed three particularly problematic areas : accessing pain control , accessing psychological or psychiatric services or both , and overcoming barriers to hospice care .
outcome	Although no significant differences were found for any variables between MU and adequately medically served ( AMS ) areas , in general palliative care is limited and unintegrated into oncology care .
outcome	Confusion among staff at a particular oncology program likely contributes to the haphazard delivery and poor integration of palliative care .
outcome	Conclusions are tempered by important study limitations but the results suggest the need for programs that improve delivery of palliative care in rural Indiana .

###17559484
background	We report the successful treatment of refractory ischemic pain from cisplatin-induced Raynaud 's syndrome with spinal cord stimulation after failed pharmacologic management and surgical sympathectomy .
background	Case Report : A 48-year-old man developed ischemic pain of the hands while undergoing cisplatin and gemcitabine chemotherapy for metastatic pancreatic carcinoma .
outcome	After extensive pharmacologic management and surgical sympathectomy failed to provide adequate analgesia , the patient underwent a percutaneous spinal cord stimulation trial followed by permanent implantation and received significant pain relief prior to s
outcome	Spinal cord stimulation provided effective therapy for refractory ischemic pain , even after failed sympathectomy .

###7974027
background	There have been only a few investigational reports of sleep apnea syndrome ( SAS ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , although it may not be a rare condition and may be life-threatening occasionally .
background	The factor precipitating SAS in such patients is thought to be destruction of the temporomandibular joints ( TMJs ) from RA processes .
population	To assess the relationship of the degree of destruction of the TMJs to the frequency of apnea , we examined them in 10 RA patients who complained of snoring .
other	Those patients were classified as classical RA according to the criteria of American Rheumatism Association .
other	They consisted of 3 males and 7 females with a mean age of 57.8 + 11.0 years and a mean disease duration of 15.9 + / - 9.4 years .
other	In order to numerically evaluate the degree of destruction of the mandibular rami , we quoted a method from the literature ( Redlund-Johnell I , Scand J Rheumatol 16355 , 1987 ) and measured the vertical distance ( = ramal height ) from the mandibular angle to the palato-occipital line on the lateral view film of the cervical spine in each patient .
other	The mean values of ramal height ( RH ) of the normal material ( we studied in Japanese ) are 46.0 mm in males and 38.3 mm in females .
outcome	There were 8 cases of SAS out of the 10 RA patients studied .
outcome	Their mean total apneic episode ( TAE ) was 289.9 mm with a range of 0-611 .
outcome	The mean ratio ( % ) of RH to mean value of the normal material ( % RH ) was 68.8 + / - 22.2 % for all .
outcome	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###18070313
background	We present a 59-year-old man with a dilated cardiomyopathy ( ejection fraction = 20 % ) , congestive heart failure and atrio-ventricular ( AV ) block who underwent implantation of a biventricular defibrillator ( BiV ICD ) .
background	While undergoing cardiac transplant evaluation for drug-refractory ventricular fibrillation , his telemetry recorded findings resembling crosstalk inhibition .
outcome	Device interrogation was normal .
outcome	All episodes occurred at 1:00 a.m. suggesting a routine device operation .
outcome	Left ventricular capture management , a new feature that automatically measures left ventricular pacing thresholds at 1:00 a.m. , had been programmed to Monitor .
outcome	Understanding this sophisticated pacing algorithm might avoid confusion when operative in patients with AV block .

###8630199
background	Severe pain occurs in 5-30 % of the spinal cord-injured ( SCI ) population and is difficult to treat .
background	Subarachnoid lidocaine has been used in selected patients with some success .
background	Mexiletine , an analog of lidocaine that acts at Na + / K + channels in the peripheral nerve , has been found effective in persons with diabetic dysesthetic neuropathy .
background	The effect of mexiletine in the treatment of spinal cord dysesthetic pain was examined in this study .
population	Fifteen patients were enrolled , and 11 patients completed the prospective , randomized , placebo-controlled , double-blind , crossover design trial .
other	Inclusion/exclusion criteria were carefully defined .
intervention	A 1-wk washout period was followed by a 4-wk drug trial of either mexiletine ( 450 mg/day ) or placebo .
other	This was repeated for the second medication in the second arm of the study .
other	Patients were followed weekly with McGill and visual analog pain scales .
other	Baseline , midpoint , and endpoint Barthel function scores were recorded .
other	The Wilcoxon 's signed-rank test and paired t test were used for statistical analysis .
outcome	Results showed no significant effect of mexiletine on SCI dysesthetic pain scales or Barthel index .
outcome	In conclusion , in this trial , mexiletine did not appear to decrease spinal cord injury-related dysesthetic pain .

###9221411
background	Hormone replacement therapy ( HRT ) in post-menopausal or ovariectomized women reduces mortality due to cardiovascular diseases , lowers morbidity due to osteoporosis and improves vasovagal symptoms .
background	Long-term therapy , however , increase the risk of side-effects .
background	HRT may decrease mammographic sensitivity , markedly increasing glandular density .
background	Enlargement of pre-existing cysts and fibroadenomas has also been reported after HRT .
background	The correlation between HRT and breast cancer is highly controversial .
population	We examined 650 women : 550 of them ( 84.6 % ) received HRT ( 157 estrogens and 393 estrogens-progestins ) and 100 ( 15.4 % ) refused treatment and were thus considered as a control group .
other	All patients underwent mammography and DEXA before HRT and , during treatment , were followed-up yearly with mammography , often combined with US , and DEXA .
other	Fisher 's test was used for data analysis ( confidence interval 95 % ) .
outcome	The statistical analysis showed a significant difference between the HRT group and the control group only for the lumbar spine .
outcome	II ) were shown in 150 of 550 HRT patients .
outcome	Increased breast density was the most frequent finding .
outcome	Benign lesions arising de novo or increasing in size and/or number were observed in 41 of 150 patients ( 27.3 % ) in the HRT group , where 3 breast carcinomas were detected , versus 1 breast cancer only in the control group .
outcome	HRT had a marked positive effect on bone mineral content ( BMC ) at 2 years ' follow-up , but it remains debated if it reduces breast cancer risk .
outcome	In conclusion , our results indicate that a yearly mammography is mandatory in long-term HRT subjects and US may be also needed in particularly dense breasts .

###15028447
other	To determine the incidence and characteristics of prostate cancer in men with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
background	Little is known about the characteristics of prostate cancer in men with SCI , because prostate cancer screening is not aggressively performed in this population .
population	In one fiscal year , 648 men with SCI older than age 50 years were actively enrolled with the SCI service , 20,949 able-bodied men older than age 50 years were actively enrolled in the outpatient clinic database , and 945 patients with prostate cancer were i
other	These three databases were cross-referenced for prostate cancer diagnosis and stage and compared with the presence of SCI .
outcome	Of the 648 patients with SCI , 12 patients with a prostate cancer diagnosis that preceded their injury were excluded .
outcome	Of the remaining 636 patients , 11 ( 1.7 % ) had been diagnosed with prostate cancer since their injury .
outcome	In contrast , of the 20,949 able-bodied men older than age 50 years seen at our facility in fiscal year 1999 , 919 ( 4.4 % ) had prostate cancer .
outcome	Of the patients with SCI and prostate cancer , 7 ( 63.6 % ) had locally advanced ( Stage T3 ) or metastatic prostate cancer compared with 267 ( 29.1 % ) in the able-bodied population ( P = 0.012 ) .
outcome	Although the proportion of patients with a prostate cancer diagnosis was greater in the able-bodied patients , the prostate cancer detected in the patients with SCI tended to be of a more advanced stage and grade .
outcome	The difference was likely a result of the decreased use of prostate cancer screening in this population .

###17402851
background	Conventional clinical neuroimaging is insensitive to axonal injury in traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
background	Immunocytochemical staining reveals changes to axonal morphology within hours , suggesting potential for diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance ( MR ) in early diagnosis and management of TBI .
background	Diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) characterizes the three-dimensional ( 3D ) distribution of water diffusion , which is highly anisotropic in white matter fibers owing to axonal length .
background	Recently , DTI has been used to investigate traumatic axonal injury ( TAI ) , emphasizing regional analysis in more severe TBI .
background	In the current study , we hypothesized that a global white matter ( WM ) analysis of DTI data would be sensitive to TAI across a spectrum of TBI severity and injury to scan interval .
population	To investigate this , we compared WM-only histograms of a scalar , fractional anisotropy ( FA ) , between 20 heterogeneous TBI patients recruited from Detroit Medical Center , including six mild TBI ( GCS 13-15 ) , and 14 healthy age-matched controls .
other	FA histogram parameters were correlated with admission GCS and posttraumatic amnesia ( PTA ) .
outcome	In all cases , including mild TBI , patients ' FA histograms were globally decreased compared with control histograms .
outcome	The shape of the TBI histograms also differed from controls , being more peaked and skewed .
outcome	The mean FA , kurtosis and skewness were highly correlated suggesting a common mechanism .
outcome	FA histogram properties also correlated with injury severity indexed by GCS and PTA , with mean FA being the best predictor and duration of PTA ( r = 0.64 ) being superior to GCS ( r = 0.47 ) .
outcome	Therefore , in this heterogeneous sample , the FA mean accounted for 40 % of the variance in PTA .
outcome	Increased diffusion in the short axis dimension , likely reflecting dysmyelination and swelling of axons , accounted for most of the FA decrease .
outcome	FA is globally deceased in WM , including mild TBI , possibly reflecting widespread involvement .
outcome	FA changes appear to be correlated with injury severity suggesting a role in early diagnosis and prognosis of TBI .

###8534327
background	In addition to early responses after transcranial magnetic stimulation , usually designated as Motor Evoked Potentials ( MEP ) , several late responses have been reported in intervals up to 500 ms following stimulus .
background	Our attention in this work was focused on the response in interval 150-300 ms after stimulus output , which is also designated as S > 150 response .
population	We monitored longitudinally late S > 150 response in group of 19 stroke patient with verified hemispherical ischemic lesion .
outcome	Our results have shown that the presence of late S > 150 response on the first day after stroke predicts an excellent improvement of clinical deficit and that late S > 150 response is more sensitive to hemispheric lesion than early MEPs .
outcome	From this point of view , recording of late responses can supplement early MEP recording .
outcome	Our study demonstrated that supratentorial structures are involved in the origin of the S > 150 response .
outcome	According to the observation that in some patients a normal early response was present and an S > 150 response was absent on the hemiparetic side , and both responses were present on the unaffected side , we hypothesize that cortical structures play an impo

###18640876
background	Percutaneous vertebroplasty has become a favored treatment option for reducing pain in osteoporotic patients with vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) .
background	Short-term results are promising , although longer-term complications may arise from accelerated failure of the adjacent vertebral body .
other	To provide a preliminary biomechanical assessment of prophylactic vertebral reinforcement adjacent to vertebroplasty using a three-vertebra cadaveric segment under dynamic loads that represent increasing activity demands .
other	In addition , the effects of reducing the elastic modulus of the cement used in the intact vertebrae were also assessed .
other	STUDY DESIGN/SETTING Three-vertebra cadaveric segments were used to evaluate vertebroplasty with adjacent vertebral reinforcement as an intervention for VCFs .
intervention	Nine human three-vertebra segments ( T12-L2 ) were prepared and a compression fracture was generated in the superior vertebrae .
intervention	Vertebroplasty was performed on the fractured T12 vertebra .
intervention	Subsequently , the adjacent intact L1 vertebra was prophylactically augmented with cement of differing elastic moduli ( 100-12 .5 % modulus of the base cement value ) .
other	After subfailure quasi-static compression tests before and after augmentation , these specimens were subjected to an incrementally increasing dynamic load profile in proportion to patient body weight ( BW ) to assess the fatigue properties of the construct .
other	Quantitative computed tomography assessments were conducted at several stages in the experimental process to evaluate the vertebral condition and quantify the gross dimensions of the segment .
outcome	No significant difference in construct stiffness was found pre - or postaugmentation ( t = 1.4 , p = .19 ) .
outcome	Displacement plots recorded during dynamic loading showed little evidence of fracture under normal physiological loads or moderate activity ( 1-2 .5 x BW ) .
outcome	A third of the specimens continued to endure increasing load demands and were confirmed to have no fracture after testing .
outcome	In six specimens , however , greater loads induced 11 fractures : 7 in the augmented vertebra ( 2xT12 , 5xL5 ) and 4 in the adjacent L2 vertebra .
outcome	A strong correlation was observed between the subsidence in the segmental unit and the incidence of fracture after testing ( r ( Spearman 's ) = -0.88 , p = .002 ) .
outcome	Altering the modulus of cement in the intact vertebra had no effect on level of segmental compromise .
outcome	These preliminary findings suggest that under normal physiological loads associated with moderate physical activity , prophylactic augmentation adjacent to vertebroplasty showed little evidence of inducing fractures , although loads representing more strenu
outcome	Reducing the elastic modulus of the cement in the adjacent intact vertebrae appeared to have no significant effect on the incidence or location of the induced fracture or the overall height loss of the vertebral segment .

###12745711
background	To report the ability of 12 tracheostomized acute rehabilitation hospital inpatients with severely disordered consciousness post-traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) to participate in an objective swallowing assessment .
other	Post hoc analysis of data from a larger , prospective blinded comparison study .
intervention	Methods and procedures : Subjects completed a modified barium swallow ( MBS ) study .
other	Food/drink and tracheostomy tube management recommendations were made .
outcome	All subjects participated successfully during an MBS .
outcome	Post-MBS , 10 subjects began receiving small amounts of food and/or drink .
outcome	Prior to hospital discharge , all subjects received some food and/or drink and were extubated .
outcome	Subjects were deemed representative of this patient population and , from a swallowing perspective , other tracheostomized patient populations at the same facility .
outcome	Clinicians should routinely consider tracheostomized , acute rehabilitation hospital inpatients with severely disordered consciousness post-TBI potential MBS candidates .
outcome	Implications and continued research needs are discussed .

###2449628
background	Traumatic sacral fractures are most often due to motor vehicle or industrial accidents and are commonly associated with pelvic , urogenital , and neurological injuries .
background	In recent years , a more subtle type of sacral fracture , not associated with major trauma , has been described .
background	It is an osteoporotic insufficiency fracture that presents as low back pain in elderly patients , especially postmenopausal Caucasian women .
background	It may escape detection unless radionuclide bone scans , tomograms , or computed tomograms are obtained .
background	The radiographic features have been detailed in various publications , but little has been reported about the clinical features , treatment , or ultimate outcome of patients with osteoporotic sacral fractures .
population	We have reviewed the charts and radiological studies of 13 women and 3 men who sustained this type of fracture between 1983 and 1986 .
population	All of these patients were Caucasian .
population	The average age was 71 years .
background	The most common presenting symptom complex was diffuse low back pain accompanied by hip , buttock , or thigh pain .
outcome	Pertinent physical findings were limited to tenderness on palpation of the sacrum and a decreased range of low back motion .
outcome	The osteoporotic fractures were seldom noted on plain roentgenograms of the sacrum , but were readily defined by sacral tomography or computed tomography .
outcome	Radionuclide bone scanning also proved helpful in making the diagnosis by localizing the process .
outcome	Treatment was medical and consisted of therapies designed to reduce pain and to combat the associated osteopenia .
outcome	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###9596387
background	Assess modifications of sexual function in men treated with intrathecal baclofen for spinal spasticity .
study design	Prospective before-after trial .
other	A rehabilitation department of a university hospital ; follow-up was on an outpatient basis .
population	A convenience sample of nine consecutively recruited men with spinal cord injury or multiple sclerosis who were receiving intrathecal baclofen by an implantable pump ; average follow-up was 44.4 months .
other	A questionnaire focusing on libido ; ability to sustain reflexive and psychogenic erections ; rigidity , evaluated by a visual analog scale ; maximum duration of erection ; possibility of ejaculation .
outcome	Libido and the ability to obtain psychogenic or reflexogenic erections were not modified .
outcome	However , eight patients reported a decrease of erection rigidity and/or duration .
outcome	Ejaculation was possible in three cases before implantation .
outcome	It disappeared in two patients , and was more difficult to obtain in the last one .
outcome	It reappeared after treatment withdrawal .
outcome	No differences were found between multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injured patients .
outcome	Intrathecal baclofen may compromise erection and ejaculation .
outcome	This effect is reversible .
outcome	Patients should be informed of this effect .

###9091340
background	To determine the impact of hydrosalpinx on pregnancy rates in patients undergoing IVF for infertility caused by tubal disease .
other	Review of the records of all patients who had undergone IVF for tubal factor infertility at our institution between May 1988 and October 1994 .
other	A university-sponsored , hospital-based IVF facility .
population	Two hundred fifty patients were identified with infertility due to tubal disease ; 67 of these had at least one documented hydrosalpinx whereas the remaining 183 did not .
other	Numbers of oocytes retrieved and fertilized , the number of embryos transferred and implanting , and resulting pregnancy rates .
outcome	The groups were similar in age and cycle cancellation rates .
outcome	The patients with hydrosalpinx had greater numbers of oocytes retrieved per cycle ( 15.0 versus 11.6 ) and embryos transferred per cycle then those without hydrosalpinges ( 4.21 versus 3.98 ) .
outcome	The hydrosalpinx group also undertook more cycles per patient ( 2.31 versus 1.96 ) .
outcome	Fertilization rates between the two groups were similar , but implantation rates were decreased in those with hydrosalpinx ( 8.5 % versus 11.2 % ) .
outcome	Hydrosalpinx did not result in impaired ovarian stimulation or decreased oocyte fertilization .
outcome	It did , however , interfere with implantation and reduce to some degree the success of IVF in achieving an ongoing pregnancy .
outcome	The validity of routine salpingectomy for hydrosalpinx is debatable , but its use in selected individuals may well be appropriate .

###10796847
background	Patients with isolated supratentorial brain tumours , presumed to be primary on imaging , have two surgical management options - biopsy or resection .
background	Surgical opinions appear to be equally divided when considering the relative risks and benefits of these two procedures .
other	To estimate the clinical effectiveness of radical surgical resection compared to simple biopsy in patients with malignant glioma .
other	Electronic database searches of COCHRANE CONTROLLED TRIALS REGISTER ( including the Cochrane Cancer Network Specialised Register of Trials ) , MEDLINE , CANCERLIT , EMBASE , BIOSIS and SCIENCE CITATION INDEX .
other	Hand searching the references of all identified studies ; hand searching the Journal of Neuro-Oncology over the previous 10 years , including all conference abstracts ; personal communication .
population	Randomised and clinical controlled trials were included if they compared biopsy to resection , or looked at effect of extent of resection on survival , time to progression or quality of life , for malignant glioma patients of all ages .
other	Studies were to be identified , critically appraised and data extracted by the author ( SEM ) .
other	For dichotomous data , Peto odds ratios ( OR ) with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) were hoped to have been estimated .
other	Normal continuous data were to have been summated using the weighted mean difference ( WMD ) .
outcome	The electronic database search yielded 2100 citations .
outcome	Of these , two articles were identified for possible inclusion , however both were excluded .
outcome	The hand search and personal communication were similarly unproductive .
outcome	No studies were included in the review and no data was synthesised .
outcome	Given that no qualifying studies were identified and because this is an important issue , both in terms of patient risk and benefit and health economics , the author feels it important to conduct a randomised controlled trial in this subject .

###16892928
background	To compare the onset of symptomatic urinary tract infection in individuals with spinal cord injury in a rehabilitation setting who are randomized to clean or sterile intermittent catheterization technique .
study design	Randomized controlled design .
other	Spinal cord rehabilitation units in western Canada .
population	Thirty-six patients with cervical spinal cord injuries requiring intermittent catheterization by nursing staff were recruited .
other	None had a previous history of voiding dysfunction or urinary tract infections .
other	Interventions
intervention	Subjects were randomized to either clean or sterile intermittent catheterization technique .
other	Protocols for both clean and sterile techniques were standardized and followed by nursing staff and caregivers .
other	Primary outcome measure was symptomatic urinary tract infection as diagnosed by urine culture > or = 10 ( 5 ) colony-forming units/mL , pyuria ( > or = 10 leukocytes on high-power field ) , and accompanying symptoms .
outcome	A total of 189 urine specimens from 36 subjects were cultured .
outcome	Of the 36 subjects , 15 ( 43 % ) developed a symptomatic urinary tract infection : 6/16 ( 37 % ) from the clean group ; 9/20 ( 45 % ) from the sterile group ( P > 0.05 ) .
outcome	Mean time to onset for symptomatic urinary tract infection for the clean group was 3.0 ( standard deviation ( SD ) 2.4 ) weeks and for the sterile group , 3.6 ( SD 1.3 ) weeks ( P > 0.05 ) .
outcome	The most common urinary organisms at onset of symptomatic urinary tract infection were Enterococcus species followed by Klebsiella .
outcome	Clean intermittent catheterization in the rehabilitation setting does not appear to place the patient with spinal cord injury at increased risk for developing symptomatic urinary tract infection , and has significant cost and time saving benefits for the h

###16583525
background	Mayo Clinic has a long-standing reputation as a leader in the basic and clinical sciences .
background	However , there is little in the published literature about Mayo Clinic 's contributions to the delivery of health care services .
background	This article is an overview of what Mayo brought to health care delivery between the 1860s and the 1980s , highlighting some of the lesser-known innovations that have influenced health care delivery on a national and international level such as the develop

###17880726
background	There has been an ongoing discussion about the relationship between time spent watching television and childhood obesity .
background	This debate has special relevance in the Latin American region were the globalization process has increased the availability of screen-based entertainment at home .
background	The aim of this study is to examine the association between television viewing and weight status in Colombian children .
population	This cross sectional investigation included children aged 5 to12 yrs from the National Nutrition Survey in Colombia ( ENSIN 2005 ) .
other	Weight and height were measured in 11,137 children in order to calculate body mass index .
other	Overweight was defined by international standards .
intervention	Time spent viewing television was determined for these children through parental reports .
other	Multiple logistic regression analyses were conducted for different subgroups and adjusted for potential confounders in order to study the association between television viewing and weight status in this population .
outcome	Among the surveyed children , 41.5 % viewed television less than two hours/day ; 36.8 % between two and 3.9 hours/day and 21.7 % four or more hours/day .
outcome	The prevalence of overweight ( obesity inclusive ) in this population was 11.1 % .
outcome	Children who were classified as excessive television viewers ( between two and 3.9 hours/day or 4 or more hours/day ) were more likely to be overweight ( OR : 1.44 95 % CI : 1.41-1 .47 and OR : 1.32 95 % CI : 1.30-1 .34 , respectively ) than children who reported to w
outcome	Stratified analyses by age , gender and urbanization levels showed similar results .
outcome	Television viewing was positively associated with the presence of overweight in Colombian children .
outcome	A positive association between urbanization level and television viewing was detected .
outcome	Considering that the majority of Colombian children lives in densely populated cities and appear to engage in excessive television viewing these findings are of public health relevance for the prevention of childhood obesity .

###10422730
background	In the present brief overview we summarize results from several studies focusing on two neuropeptides , galanin and neuropeptide Y ( NPY ) in discrete neuronal systems , where they coexist with classic transmitters .
background	On the basis of studies in different animal models we propose that these peptides may be involved in regulation of certain CNS functions and that drugs acting on their receptors may be of use in new therapeutic strategies .
background	At the spinal level galanin and NPY are regulated in DRG neurons by nerve injury and in dorsal horn neurons by inflammation .
background	It is possible that this leads to attenuation of pain sensitivity .
background	Moreover , both peptides may exert trophic effects , for example to enhance regeneration .
background	In the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus NPY and its receptors are part of the feeding circuitry , and we suggest that derangement of these NPY neurons may at least in part underlay the lethal phenotype of anorectic mice , which die 22 days postnatally after sho
background	Expression of NPY and NPY receptors is changed in the hippocampus of mice comparatively early after prion inoculation , indicating that this peptide system is affected in this spongiform degenerative disease in a region of importance for learning and memor
background	Finally , galanin is co-localized with classic monoamine transmitters in two central systems , the dorsal raphe serotonin neurons and the locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons .
background	In both cases galanin causes hyperpolarization ( at high concentrations ) and prolongs monoamine-induced outward currents ( at low concentrations ) , thus modulating activity in two systems of importance for many brain functions including mood regulation .
background	It may therefore be interesting to analyse to what extent drugs affecting galaninergic transmission also may be efficient in the treatment of , for example , depression .

###9796139
background	The role of the vocational rehabilitation counselor in the rehabilitation process for individuals with TBI is explained .
background	The specialized evaluation , team-orientation , and services involved are described .
background	Eight areas involved in vocational evaluation are noted : social support , vocational/educational , independent living , medical , behavioral/psychosocial , financial , legal , and other areas .

###17149636
background	Presacral region is one of the difficult regions for drainage of abscess as the approaches described for this carry a lot of morbidities .
intervention	Transpedicular approach is described for the drainage of presacral abscess .
outcome	Further , tuberculous abscess as a cause of cauda equina syndrome is reported .
outcome	Patient had complete neurological recovery within weeks of drainage of abscess .
outcome	Transpedicular drainage of presacral abscess is a safer option for recently developed neurological deficit .
outcome	Late presentation may need anterior approach , which is associated with increased morbidity .

###11774957
background	Infection with Helicobacter pylori , particularly with strains positive for CagA protein , increases the risk of gastric adenocarcinoma .
background	Few studies have explored the possible association between H. pylori infection and colorectal cancer .
other	This study evaluated whether the seroprevalence of CagA in H. pylori-infected patients affected risk for colorectal cancer independently of H. pylori status .
population	In this study , we tested serum IgG antibodies against H. pylori ( ELISA ) and CagA protein ( Western blot assay ) in 67 patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma , 36 with gastric adenocarcinoma , 47 with other malignancies ( cancer controls ) , and 45 hospitalized
other	Colonic cancer and gastric cancer patients with H. pylori infection were compared to each control group and to the pooled controls using simple and adjusted analyses .
outcome	H. pylori infection was noted in 50 colon cancer patients , 31 gastric cancer patients , 31 cancer controls , and 32 TEE controls .
outcome	In all , 41 ( 82 % ) , 29 ( 94 % ) , 11 ( 35 % ) , and 13 ( 41 % ) , respectively , of these H. pylori-positive sera expressed CagA reactivity ( p < 0.001 for all pairwise comparisons between cases and controls ) .
outcome	In the adjusted analysis , infection with H. pylori CagA + compared to H. pylori CagA - was associated with increased risk for colorectal adenocarcinoma ( odds ratio = 10.6 ; 95 % CI = 2.7-41 .3 ; p = 0.001 ) and gastric adenocarcinoma ( odds ratio = 88.1 ; 95 % CI =
outcome	Among patients infected with H. pylori , CagA + seropositivity is associated with increased risk for both gastric and colonic cancer .
outcome	This finding should stimulate additional research into the role of cagA + H. pylori infection in the development of colorectal cancer .

###9777426
background	To compare the rates of mental health problems , disability and use of health and social services of older people living in sheltered accommodation with those of the rest of the community in the same age group .
other	Door-to-door survey in randomly selected enumeration districts .
other	The districts contained three sheltered accommodation complexes .
other	Residents from these addresses were compared with the others .
other	London Borough of Islington .
population	700 men and women aged 65 or over .
other	Short-CARE depression , dementia and activity scales ; the Guy 's / Age Concern anxiety scale ; individual items detailing problems with mobility , vision and hearing ; use of a number of health and social services .
outcome	The only difference in mental health variables on univariate analysis was a greater severity of cognitive impairment and dementia symptoms in sheltered accommodation .
outcome	When demographic differences were taken into account , the association with cognitive impairment became statistically insignificant .
outcome	There were significant associations between residence in sheltered accommodation and several of the disability variables .
outcome	Increased use of health and social services by sheltered residents remained significant after disability and living alone were taken into account .
outcome	The residents of sheltered accommodation were more disabled than the general elderly population but , in contrast to those in residential care , did not have a great excess of mental health problems .
outcome	Indeed , the possibility was raised that sheltered accommodation may protect against depression in people who live alone .

###8362892
background	Obesity can result in alterations in cardiac structure and function even in the absence of systemic hypertension and underlying organic heart disease .
background	Increased total blood volume creates a high cardiac output state that may cause ventricular dilatation and ultimately eccentric hypertrophy of the left ( and possibly the right ) ventricle .
background	Eccentric left ventricular ( LV ) hypertrophy produces diastolic dysfunction .
background	Systolic dysfunction may ensue due to excessive wall stress if wall thickening fails to keep pace with dilatation .
background	This disorder is referred to as obesity cardiomyopathy .
background	The presence of systemic hypertension in obese individuals facilitates development of LV dilatation and hypertrophy .
background	Congestive heart failure may occur in such individuals , and may be attributable to LV diastolic dysfunction or to combined LV diastolic and systolic dysfunction .
background	The sleep apnea/obesity hypoventilation syndrome occurs in 5 % of morbidly obese individuals and is potentially life-threatening .
background	Treatment of obesity cardiomyopathy consists of weight loss , salt restriction , and diuretics .
background	Digitalis and vasodilators may be useful in selected cases .
background	Central obesity is probably a risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease .
background	Alterations in lipid and insulin metabolism may facilitate development of coronary heart disease in obese patients .

###10135458
background	Health care reform in the United States is on a collision course with economic reality .
background	Most proposals focus on measures that will produce one-time cost savings by eliminating waste and inefficiency .
background	But the right question to ask is how to achieve dramatic and sustained cost reductions over time .
background	What will it take to foster entirely new approaches to disease prevention and treatment , whole new ways to deliver services , and more cost-effective facilities ?
background	The answer lies in the powerful lessons business has learned over the past two decades about the imperatives of competition .
background	In industry after industry , the underlying dynamic is the same : competition compels companies to deliver constantly increasing value to customers .
background	The fundamental driver of this continuous quality improvement and cost reduction is innovation .
background	Without incentives to sustain innovation in health care , short-term cost savings will soon be overwhelmed by the desire to widen access , the growing health needs of an aging population , and the unwillingness of Americans to settle for anything less than t
background	The misguided assumption underlying much of the debate about health care is that technology is the enemy .
background	By assuming that technology drives up costs , reformers neglect the central importance of innovation or , worse yet , attempt to slow its pace .
background	In fact , innovation , driven by rigorous competition , is the key to successful reform .

###16940162
background	Although clinical trials demonstrate the efficacy of quality improvement outreach in improving service delivery , evidence for broad community effectiveness has been lacking .
background	The objective of this study was to test the effectiveness of a statewide pediatric quality improvement outreach program in improving preventive services for children who are younger than 5 years .
population	All pediatric practices in Vermont ( n = 35 ) were invited to participate in a preventive services quality improvement initiative .
other	Ninety-one percent agreed .
other	Participating practices serve > 80 % of all Vermont children who are younger than 5 years .
other	The main outcome measured was change in 9 preventive services areas ( 1 ) immunizations up to date ; ( 2 ) anemia screening ; ( 3 ) tuberculosis risk assessment and indicated screening ; ( 4 ) lead screening ; ( 5 ) infant sleep position counseling ; ( 6 ) environmental tobacco smoke-exposure risk assessment ; ( 7 ) blood pressure screening ; ( 8 ) vision screening ; and ( 9 ) dental risk assessment .
outcome	All practices demonstrated improvement in 1 or more preventive services areas .
other	The mean number of areas chosen was 5 ( range 1-9 ) .
outcome	Practices that selected a specific preventive service area as a quality improvement goal were more likely to demonstrate improvement in that area than practices that did not choose to focus on that preventive services area .
outcome	The work in this project has provided the evidence for an effective statewide pediatric quality improvement outreach program to improve preventive services for children who are younger than 5 years .
outcome	Practices ' decision to focus on a specific preventive service area as a quality improvement goal seems necessary for improvement in that area .
outcome	This approach may be effective in other states or regions .

###18258231
background	To investigate the risks of chromosome mutation after ART for couples with comparable genetic backgrounds .
study design	Prospective clinical observational study .
other	In vitro fertilization center at a tertiary-care , university-affiliated teaching hospital .
population	Ninety-seven male children whose fathers have normal spermatogenesis were recruited , including 19 babies conceived through IVF , 18 babies conceived through intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) , and 60 naturally conceived babies , as well as the babies '
intervention	Collection of peripheral and umbilical cord blood samples .
other	The Yq genetic status of the babies and fathers according to 13 Y-specific markers covering four azoospermia factor ( AZF ) subregions , the karyotype , and the neonatal examination .
outcome	We found that all children had a normal 46 , XY karyotype , but de novo Y-chromosome microdeletions were identified in 1 ( 5.3 % ) of 19 IVF offspring and in 3 ( 16.7 % ) of 18 ICSI offspring .
outcome	The incidence of de novo Y-chromosome microdeletion in male children conceived through ICSI or IVF was statistically significantly higher than that in those conceived naturally ( 10.8 % vs. 0 ) .
outcome	In four babies with microdeletion , one was complicated , with hypospadias .
outcome	Our results , for the first time , indicate that risks of gene mutation may increase in the ART offspring , even though their fathers have normal spermatogenesis and genetic background .
outcome	Hence , intense attention should be placed on genetic safety in the ART children , and the benefits and risks of adopting ART should be balanced gingerly .

###9593951
background	Bradykinin has been strongly implicated as a mediator of cardiac nociception .
background	During coronary artery occlusion , the content of bradykinin in coronary sinus blood increases .
background	In non-cardiac tissues nociception to bradykinin exhibits tachyphylaxis , however , this phenomenon has not been rigorously studied in the heart .
background	This raises the question that repeated coronary occlusions may also result in tachyphylaxis , thereby reducing cardiac sensation on subsequent ischemic stimulation .
background	We therefore examined the hypothesis that repetitive episodes of myocardial ischemia and of epicardial application of bradykinin demonstrate tachyphylaxis .
population	Mongrel cats were anesthetized with alpha-chloralose and heart rate , arterial pressure , and thoracic spinal neuron firing rate were recorded during 60 s of anterior descending coronary occlusion or local epicardial application of bradykinin ( 10 microM ) .
outcome	Neurons were identified by cutaneous receptive fields in the left shoulder area .
outcome	Sixty-one of 93 neurons tested responded with an increase in firing rate to coronary artery occlusion only ( n = 24 ) , bradykinin only ( n = 19 ) or to both ( n = 18 ) .
outcome	On repetitive coronary occlusion , 14 of 25 neurons demonstrated tachyphylaxis compared to 12 of 15 tested with bradykinin ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Similar responses were observed in thoracic spinal neurons that projected to the brain .
outcome	In neurons demonstrating tachyphylaxis , dorsal cervical cold block partially restored the neuronal activation to coronary occlusion but not to bradykinin .
outcome	We conclude , based on neuronal responses to repetitive stimuli , that afferent spinal responses to coronary occlusion and bradykinin are different .
outcome	These data suggest that bradykinin is not the sole mediator of myocardial ischemic pain .
outcome	The tachyphylaxis to repeated coronary artery occlusions may contribute to the clinical phenomenon of silent myocardial ischemia .

###19730763
other	Although the bladder neck is elevated during a pelvic floor muscle ( PFM ) contraction , it descends during straining .
background	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between bladder neck displacement , electromyography ( EMG ) activity of the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles and intra-abdominal pressure ( IAP ) during different pelvic floor and abdominal contractions .
population	Nine women without PFM dysfunction performed maximal , gentle and moderate PFM contractions , maximal and gentle transversus abdominis ( TrA ) contractions , bracing , Valsalva and head lift .
other	Bladder neck position was assessed with perineal ultrasound .
other	PFM and abdominal muscle activities were recorded with a vaginal probe and fine-wire electrodes , respectively .
other	IAP was recorded with a rectal balloon .
outcome	Bladder neck elevation only occurred during PFM and TrA contractions .
outcome	PFM EMG and IAP increased during all tasks from 0.5 ( gentle TrA ) to 45.7 cmH ( 2 ) O ( maximal Valsalva ) .
outcome	Bladder neck elevation was only observed when the activity of PFM EMG was high relative to the IAP increase .

###17364777
background	To compare the methodologies and results of research across five diagnostic groups in which there was expected to be a high prevalence of depression and occupational disability .
population	A review of research published since 1994 was carried out concerning depression and occupational disability in five diagnostic groups : Major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , spinal cord injuries ( SCI ) , traumatic brain injuries ( TBI ) , chronic back pain ( CP ) and
other	Prospective longitudinal designs were mostly undertaken in MDD studies .
other	Diagnostic interview schedules were utilized in most MDD studies whereas self-report inventories that tend to confound somatic and depressive symptoms were mostly used in CP , SCI , TBI and MI/CABG studies .
outcome	In longitudinal MDD studies both depression and occupational disability were related to access to enhanced primary care treatment .
outcome	On the other hand , CP research reported different results concerning the strength of depressive symptoms , cognitive and psychosocial factors in predicting occupational disability .
outcome	Different trends across diagnostic groups were evident in relation to depression , occupational disability , co-morbidity , socio-demographic factors and psychosocial resources .
outcome	Co-morbid , socio-demographic and psychosocial factors provide a framework from which to identify those at greater risk of depression and occupational disability .
outcome	However , more CP , SCI , TBI and MI/CABG studies with diagnostic schedules , prospective designs and longer follow-up are required .

###12294592
background	The US Office of Family Planning ( FP ) has issued 10 research grants ranging from $ 100,000 to $ 250,000 to organizations seeking to develop , implement , and test ways to involve young men in FP and reproductive health services .
background	While only 2 % of federal dollars are currently earmarked for reproductive health services for young men , a survey revealed that only 32 % of sexually active men and 17 % of sexually inexperienced men reported receiving contraceptive information from health
background	One grant recipient is a cooperative venture of the University of North Carolina , the Guilford County health department , and `` Wise Guys , '' a male responsibility/adolescent pregnancy prevention program developed by the local Family Life Council in
background	The grant allowed Wise Guys to add a peer education component and hire the first male health educator in the county health department .
outcome	This educator notes that the biggest misconceptions held by young men about the health department are that test results are shared with parents , that the agency serves only impoverished people , and that every client must be tested for pregnancy or sexuall
outcome	The health educator addresses these misconceptions in classes and individual counseling sessions , and he accompanies young men to STD tests.americascritiquedelivery of health caredeveloped countrieseconomic factorsfamily planningfamily planning programs --

###7638313
background	Sleep disorders are frequent and well documented in patients with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
background	The effect of depression and anxiety on sleep in PD patients has not been carefully studied however , despite the fact that both depression and anxiety are common in PD and well known to affect sleep in patients without PD .
population	In this questionnaire study , sleep , anxiety , and depression were evaluated in 99 patients with PD and 47 control subjects .
outcome	PD patients had significantly higher scores on a variety of sleep variables as well as on measures of anxiety and depression .
outcome	While anxiety and depression were correlated with some sleep measures , neither contributed significantly to overall variance in sleep quality .
outcome	The effect on sleep variables was dominated by on-off symptom phenomena , levodopa dose , and age .

###15994574
background	Crisis resolution teams ( CRTs ) are being introduced throughout England , but their evidence base is limited .
intervention	To compare outcomes of crises before and after introduction of a CRT .
other	A new methodology was developed for identification and operational definition of crises .
other	A quasi-experimental design was used to compare cohorts presenting just before and just after a CRT was established .
outcome	Following introduction of the CRT , the admission rate in the 6 weeks after a crisis fell from 71 % to 49 % ( OR 0.38 , 95 % CI 0.21-0 .70 ) .
outcome	A difference of 5.6 points ( 95 % CI 2.0-8 .3 ) on mean Client Satisfaction Questionnaire ( CSQ-8 ) score favoured the CRT .
outcome	These findings remained significant after adjustment for baseline differences .
outcome	No clear difference emerged in involuntary hospitalisations , symptoms , social functioning or quality of life .
outcome	CRTs may prevent some admissions and patients prefer them , although other outcomes appear unchanged in the short term .

###15189000
background	Interorganizational health care delivery networks have potential for sustaining health services delivery in rural areas faced with economic and demographic challenges .
population	Four Nebraska rural health care delivery networks ( Albion-Ord , Blue River Valley , Rural Partners , Inc. , and Western Nebraska ) were compared to an interorganizational model based on theories of interorganizational relations , exchange , population ecology , a
other	It assumes that outcomes , including effectiveness , are influenced by external and internal factors that are operationalized through external control , technology , structure , and operational process variables .
other	Data were collected by a non-random , two-level cluster mail survey of network members ( 45/59 = 76.3 % response rate ) .
outcome	All networks received technical assistance from the Nebraska Office of Rural Health .
outcome	Networks have formal organization , strategic plans , and official coordinators .
outcome	Hospital administrators hold most leadership positions ; few doctors or citizens are involved .
outcome	Correlation and multiple regression analysis show partial fit between the research model and study networks .
outcome	Effectiveness , measure by the gap between best possible and actual practice , increased with network connectivity ( r = .36 , p < .05 ) , group methods of administrative decision-making ( r = .52 , p < .001 ) and sequential pattern of service delivery ( r = .39 , p <
outcome	Greater dependence on vertical funding corresponds to greater external control ( r = .43 , p < .01 ) .
outcome	The prediction that , as scope narrows , task intensity ( r = .56 , p < .001 ) , duration ( r = .41 , p < .01 ) , and task volume ( r = .50 , p < .01 ) increase is upheld .
outcome	Centrality and network size decrease together ( r = .43 , p < .01 ) where there is little reliance on vertical sources of funds ( r = .36 , p < .05 ) .
outcome	The integrated interorganizational model demonstrates some efficacy for testing potential effectiveness of networks .

###8138728
background	The primary purpose of this study was to determine if , when confronted with a series of cervical videofluoroscopic ( VF ) studies , board certified radiologists who are trained in the interpretation of VF spinal examinations would be in agreement with one an
background	As a secondary objective , we polled participating physicians regarding demographic issues such as time in practice , self-assessment of proficiency , the type of training received in VF interpretation and the number of VF studies read per year , in order to
population	Seven patients who had been exposed to cervical acceleration/deceleration ( CAD ) trauma from motor vehicle accidents were randomly selected from the practice of two of the authors ( ACC and JSK ) .
population	Three volunteers , who were asymptomatic and had no history of neck pain or injury to the neck , were also recruited .
other	In all cases , informed consent was obtained in accordance with the Helsinki guidelines .
population	Ten board qualified chiropractic radiologists were recruited to participate in this study .
other	Blinded to the history and identity of the patients and volunteers , the participants were asked to view the 10 VF studies and , in each case , to report either `` normal , '' `` hypomobile '' or `` unable to determine '' for all segments from OCC/C1 through C7/T1 .
other	The resulting data was analyzed for concordance using the kappa statistic .
other	Kappa was calculated for all segments ( OCC-T1 ) for agreement in `` normal '' vs. `` abnormal '' motion .
other	The two possible choices for abnormal ( i.e. , hypermobility and hypomobility ) were pooled together .
other	We also compared the results of participants ' responses to demographic questions with the results of their interpretations of the VF studies .
other	An urban group practice .
other	Four of the patients were those of an orthopedist ( ACC ) and three were those of a general practitioner ( JSK ) .
other	Seven patients were randomly selected from a larger group of patients satisfying our selection criteria .
other	Patients were chosen who had been exposed to CAD trauma and had been provided with at least 6 months of conservative chiropractic care , yet remained symptomatic as a result of their injuries .
other	All had evidence of intersegmental instability in the cervical spine as defined by other investigators and none had any history of injury or pain in the cervical spine prior to their motor vehicle accident .
other	Four males and three females with a mean age of 16 yr comprised the patient group .
other	Two asymptomatic atraumatic volunteers were males and one was female .
other	They were age matched to the patient group with a mean age of 38 yr .
other	This study did not entail any form of intervention .
outcome	Our primary outcome measure was that of concordance or agreement between our group of 10 participant radiologists in regard to their interpretations of the 10 VF studies provided to them , i.e. , that of interinterpreter reliability .
outcome	Higher values of kappa suggested that agreement between the radiologists was not likely due to chance alone .
outcome	Our secondary outcome measure was a correlation between the results of our demographic questionnaires , completed by participating radiologists , and the overall interinterpreter reliability concordance .
outcome	The hypothesis tested was that radiologists who have institutional training in VF , more years of experience , and those who read more VF studies annually and self-rank their proficiency as `` high '' are more likely to agree with others and/or are mo

###1927618
population	Seventy consecutive patients with injuries of the thoracic and lumbar spine accompanied by neurological deficit were prospectively studied and follow-up .
outcome	In 40 of these patients with a burst fracture , the degree of involvement of the cross-sectional area of the spinal canal , as revealed on first CT after admission , was not correlated with the type and degree of initial neurological deficit .
outcome	In patients with injuries of the lumbar spine , neurological deficit may be mild , although the sagittal diameter of the spinal canal may be reduced by as much as 90 % .
outcome	We can not establish a difference in neurological recovery between those cases who were managed conservatively and those in whom a surgical decompression and stabilization procedure was performed .
outcome	Surgical stabilizing procedures , however , result in immediate stabilization of the spine , they diminish pain , facilitate nursing care and allow more rapid mobilization and earlier active rehabilitation .
outcome	If major extraspinal injuries form a relative contra-indication to surgical decompression of the cord and stabilization of the spine injury , the patient can quite well be treated conservatively without endangering neurological recovery .

###15684794
background	Ventilator-associated pneumonia ( VAP ) is a common infection among patients in trauma intensive care units ( ICUs ) .
background	It has been suggested by different investigators that VAP is an indicator of injury severity and not necessarily associated with mortality .
background	Crude mortality rates approximating 20 % have been reported for trauma patients with VAP .
background	Most studies have involved the most severely injured patients , making it difficult to determine the relative contribution of either VAP or injury severity to death .
background	If VAP is independently associated with mortality , this relationship should be most evident in less severely injured patients .
other	We studied patients with less severe injuries ( Injury Severity Score , ISS < 25 ) to determine the impact of VAP on outcomes .
population	Patients admitted to the trauma ICU with ISS < 25 were identified from the trauma registry of a level I trauma center .
other	Patients with penetrating injuries and those who died within 48 h of injury were excluded .
other	Pneumonia was diagnosed using quantitative cultures of bronchoalveolar lavage effluent ( > / = 10 ( 5 ) colony forming units/mL ) .
other	Risk factors for VAP , including age , transfusions with 24 h of admission , brain injury , and chest injury severity were analyzed .
outcome	Logistic regression analysis was then performed to determine independent factors for death.Results : There were 15,492 blunt admissions over a 5.5 year study period who survived > 48 h.
outcome	Of these , 5,860 ( 38 % ) were admitted to the ICU , and 4,111 ( 70 % of ICU admissions ) had ISS < 25 .
outcome	The incidence of VAP in this group was 8 % .
outcome	Patients with VAP were older ( 47 vs 39 years ) , had more transfusions within 24 h ( 2.5 vs 0.9 units of red blood cell concentrates ) and had greater injury severity by ISS ( 16.7 vs 12.6 points ) , GCS ( Glasgow Coma Scale ) score ( 11.8 vs. 13.7 points ) and ches
outcome	Overall mortality was 4 % .
outcome	Mortality was 16 % in patients with VAP compared to 3 % in those without VAP ( p < 0.0001 ) .
outcome	Logistic regression analysis identified transfusions , age , and VAP as independent predictors of mortality .
outcome	Other descriptors of injury severity ( ISS , GCS , or chest AIS ) were not associated with death .
outcome	48 h.
outcome	Of these , 5,860 ( 38 % ) were admitted to the ICU , and 4,111 ( 70 % of ICU admissions ) had ISS , 25 .
outcome	The incidence of VAP in this group was 8 % .
outcome	Patients with VAP were older ( 47 vs 39 years ) , had more transfusions within 24 h ( 2.5 vs 0.9 units of red blood cell concentrates ) and had greater injury severity by ISS ( 16.7 vs 12.6 points ) , GCS ( Glasgow Coma Scale ) score ( 11.8 vs. 13.7 points ) and ches
outcome	Overall mortality was 4 % .
outcome	Mortality was 16 % in patients with VAP compared to 3 % in those without VAP ( p , 0.0001 ) .
outcome	Logistic regression analysis identified transfusions , age , and VAP as independent predictors of mortality .
outcome	Other descriptors of injury severity ( ISS , GCS , or chest AIS ) were not associated with death .
outcome	Ventilator-associated pneumonia is independently associated with death in less severely injured trauma patients .
outcome	This demonstrates the need for effective diagnostic techniques so that adequate therapy may be initiated .
outcome	Prevention of VAP in less severely injured trauma patients should increase survival .

###17943814
background	The frequency with which patients should attend for a dental check-up and the potential effects on oral health of altering recall intervals between check-ups have been the subject of ongoing international debate for almost 3 decades .
background	Although recommendations regarding optimal recall intervals vary between countries and dental healthcare systems , 6-monthly dental check-ups have traditionally been advocated by general dental practitioners in many developed countries .
other	To determine the beneficial and harmful effects of different fixed recall intervals ( for example 6 months versus 12 months ) for the following different types of dental check-up a ) clinical examination only ; b ) clinical examination plus scale and polish ; c ) clinical examination plus preventive advice ; d ) clinical examination plus preventive advice plus scale and polish .
other	To determine the relative beneficial and harmful effects between any of these different types of dental check-up at the same fixed recall interval .
other	To compare the beneficial and harmful effects of recall intervals based on clinicians ' assessment of patients ' disease risk with fixed recall intervals .
other	To compare the beneficial and harmful effects of no recall interval/patient driven attendance ( which may be symptomatic ) with fixed recall intervals .
other	We searched the Cochrane Oral Health Group Trials Register , the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) , MEDLINE and EMBASE .
other	Reference lists from relevant articles were scanned and the authors of some papers were contacted to identify further trials and obtain additional information .
other	Date of most recent searches 5th March 2007 .
population	Trials were selected if they met the following criteria : design - random allocation of participants ; participants - all children and adults receiving dental check-ups in primary care settings , irrespective of their level of risk for oral disease ; interven
other	In addition the following outcomes were considered where reported patient-centred outcomes , economic cost outcomes , other outcomes such as improvements in oral health knowledge and attitudes , harms , changes in dietary habits and any other oral health-related behavioural change .
other	Information regarding methods , participants , interventions , outcome measures and results were independently extracted , in duplicate , by two review authors .
other	Authors were contacted , where deemed necessary and where possible , for further details regarding study design and for data clarification .
other	A quality assessment of the included trial was carried out .
other	The Cochrane Collaboration 's statistical guidelines were followed .
outcome	Only one study ( with 188 participants ) was included in this review and was assessed as having a high risk of bias .
outcome	This study provided limited data for dental caries outcomes ( dmfs/DMFS increment ) and economic cost outcomes ( reported time taken to provide examinations and treatment ) .
outcome	There is insufficient evidence from randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) to draw any conclusions regarding the potential beneficial and harmful effects of altering the recall interval between dental check-ups .
outcome	There is insufficient evidence to support or refute the practice of encouraging patients to attend for dental check-ups at 6-monthly intervals .
outcome	It is important that high quality RCTs are conducted for the outcomes listed in this review in order to address the objectives of this review .

###15736515
background	The purpose of this health technology assessment ( HTA ) , commissioned by the German Federal Ministry of Health and Social Security , was to systematically review the evidence for the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of antiviral treatment ( AVT ) with int
study design	We performed a systematic literature search on effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of AVT and summarized results using meta-analysis and evidence tables .
other	We applied the German Hepatitis C Model ( GEHMO ) , a decision-analytic Markov model , to determine long-term clinical effectiveness , costs , and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ( ICER ) of the examined treatment strategies .
other	Model parameters were derived from German databases , published international randomized clinical trials ( RCT ) , and a Cochrane Review .
outcome	Overall , nine RCTs , two HTA reports , one Cochrane review , two meta-analyses , and seven economic evaluations met the inclusion criteria .
outcome	These studies indicate that PegIFN + RBV achieved the highest sustained virological response rates ( SVR ) ( 54-61 percent ) , followed by IFN + RBV ( 38-54 percent ) and IFN monotherapy ( 11-21 percent ) .
outcome	Based on our meta-analysis , PegIFN + RBV reduced cases without SVR by 17 percent compared with INF + RBV .
outcome	International cost-effectiveness studies indicate that INF + RBV is cost-effective when compared with INF monotherapy .
outcome	For PegIFN + RBV , our decision analysis yielded an ICER of 9,800 Euros per quality-adjusted life-year gained .
outcome	This HTA suggests that initial combination therapy prolongs life , improves quality of life , and is cost-effective in patients with CHC .
outcome	Peginterferon plus ribavirin is the most effective and efficient treatment among the examined options .
outcome	However , because not all chronic hepatitis C patients will develop progressive liver disease , a thorough assessment of the eligibility and appropriateness of treatment with combination therapy must be performed in each individual patient .

###16970230
background	The authors performed an analysis of retrospectively obtained data to compare the outcomes of pediatric patients admitted to their institution for traumatic injuries resulting from car , motorcycle , and all-terrain vehicle ( ATV ) accidents .
study design	The authors conducted a retrospective review of Columbus Children 's Hospital 's Trauma Registry data collected between January 1993 and December 2003 .
population	Data obtained in patients admitted with motor vehicle-related injuries were compiled for a total of 1608 patient records .
other	Data regarding sex , age , hospital length of stay ( LOS ) , Glasgow Coma Scale ( GCS ) score , revised trauma score , injury severity score ( ISS ) , and use of a protective device were analyzed .
other	Of 1608 patients , 1257 ( 78 % ) were injured in automobile accidents , 123 ( 7.6 % ) in motorcycle accidents , and 228 ( 14.2 % ) in ATV accidents .
outcome	Injuries sustained in all vehicle types peaked during the summer months .
outcome	Patients involved in automobile crashes presented with significantly lower GCS scores than those injured in motorcycle and ATV accidents ; however , there was no statistically significant difference in LOS among all three injury modalities .
outcome	Protective devices were underutilized in all three motor vehicle categories but , when used , were associated with significantly higher GCS scores , ISSs , and shorter LOSs among patients admitted after automobile accidents .
outcome	The correlation of seat belt use with better outcomes underscores the necessity to improve motor vehicle safety education for children , who are less likely to be restrained as they age .

###12497648
background	Generalized anxiety disorder ( GAD ) is a prevalent and disabling disorder characterized by persistent worrying , anxiety symptoms , and tension .
background	It is the most frequent anxiety disorder in primary care , being present in 22 % of primary care patients who complain of anxiety problems .
background	The high prevalence rate of GAD in primary care ( 8 % ) compared to that reported in the general population ( 12-month prevalence 1.9-5 .1 % ) suggests that GAD patients are high users of primary care resources .
background	GAD affects women more frequently than men and prevalence rates are high in midlife ( prevalence in females over age 35 : 10 % ) and older subjects but relatively low in adolescents .
background	The natural course of GAD can be characterized as chronic with few complete remissions , a waxing and waning course of GAD symptoms , and the occurrence of substantial comorbidity particularly with depression .
background	Patients with GAD demonstrate a considerable degree of impairment and disability , even in its pure form , uncomplicated by depression or other mental disorders .
background	The degree of impairment is similar to that of cases with major depression .
background	GAD comorbid with depression usually reveals considerably higher numbers of disability days in the past month than either condition in its pure form .
outcome	As a result , GAD is associated with a significant economic burden owing to decreased work productivity and increased use of health care services , particularly primary health care .
outcome	The appropriate use of psychological treatments and antidepressants may improve both anxiety and depression symptoms and may also play a role in preventing comorbid major depression in GAD thus reducing the burden on both the individual and society .

###3068145
background	Since the advent of fiberoptic endoscopy and the introduction of colonoscopic polypectomy , a simple and cost-effective procedure has been available to deal with an exceedingly common problem , the colonic polyp .
background	Although polyps in the gastrointestinal tract have a varied natural history , there is strong evidence that adenomatous colonic polyps have a potential for malignant degeneration and that virtually all colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps .
background	This article will review some basic features of the endoscopic approaches and problems associated with polypectomy .

###16189339
background	Pronounced , unexplained preoperative tachycardia can be a formidable challenge for the anesthesiologist .
background	Whereas the relationship between persistent intraoperative tachycardia and perioperative morbidity is indisputable , there is a lack of available data on unexplained preoperative tachycardia .
background	The main objective of this case series is to stimulate research and discussion on this topic , so that guidelines can be developed to aid in management .
population	We present three patients with pronounced ( > or = 130 beats x min ( -1 ) ) unexplained preoperative tachycardia who suffered adverse perioperative events that were garnered from quality improvement records at two teaching hospitals .
other	In the first case , a 38-yr-old woman with a lumbar spinal tumour went into ventricular fibrillation after induction of anesthesia and was found on subsequent evaluation to have an abnormal cardiac re-entrant pathway .
other	In the second case , an otherwise healthy middle-aged man developed a wide complex tachycardia with hypotension during foot surgery , with the subsequent cardiac evaluation being negative .
other	In the third case , a young , healthy woman scheduled for a melanoma incision developed crushing , substernal chest pain accompanied by nausea and shortness of valve prolapse with regurgitation .
other	Before rescheduling the procedures , therapeutic interventions were undertaken that facilitated successful completion of the surgeries .
outcome	There are currently no data regarding the prevalence of unexplained preoperative tachycardia , and no guidelines to direct management .
outcome	More research is needed on this important topic , including epidemiological data and management algorithm ( s ) .

###18655202
background	The antihypersensitivity actions of gabapentin and pregabalin have been well characterized in a large number of studies , although the underlying mechanisms have yet to be defined .
background	We have been focusing on the supraspinal structure as a possible site for their action and have demonstrated that intracerebroventricular ( i.c.v. ) administration of gabapentin and pregabalin indeed decreases thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity in a mu
outcome	This novel supraspinally mediated analgesic effect was markedly suppressed by either depletion of central noradrenaline ( NA ) or blockade of spinal alpha ( 2 ) - adrenergic receptors .
outcome	Moreover , i.c.v. injection of gabapentin and pregabalin increased spinal NA turnover in mice only after peripheral nerve injury .
outcome	In locus coeruleus ( LC ) neurons in brainstem slices prepared from mice after peripheral nerve injury , gabapentin reduced the gamma-aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) type A receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents ( IPSCs ) .
outcome	Glutamate-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission was hardly affected .
outcome	Moreover , gabapentin did not reduce IPSCs in slices taken from mice given a sham operation .
outcome	Although gabapentin altered neither the amplitude nor the frequency of miniature IPSCs , it reduced IPSCs together with an increase in the paired-pulse ratio , suggesting that gabapentin acts on the presynaptic GABAergic nerve terminals in the LC .
outcome	Together , the data suggest that gabapentin presynaptically reduces GABAergic synaptic transmission , thereby removing the inhibitory influence on LC neurons only in neuropathic pain states , leading to activation of the descending noradrenergic system .

###7854795
background	Neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury ( SCI ) can be difficult to manage using currently available pain management techniques .
background	We describe a case of chronic pain following SCI which failed to respond to a variety of approaches including intrathecal administration of morphine .
outcome	Use of clonidine in addition to the morphine resulted in a marked decrease in pain .
outcome	The use of intrathecal clonidine with or without opioids may present an effective alternative in the management of intractable SCI pain and other forms of neuropathic pain .

###690641
background	The excitability of a lower limb myotatic reflex arc is modulated by the antecedent activation of another myotatic arc in the same limb ; the changes can be represented by heteronymous excitability curves .
background	This work compares heteronymous excitability curves in spastic and normal subjects .
population	Eighteen patients who showed clear signs of pyramidal tract lesions at a chronic stage were studied .
other	Three myotatic arcs of the lower limb ( soleus , quadriceps , and short biceps ) were activated either by mechanical percussion ( T Sol-T Quad-TSBi ) or by electrical stimulation of the afferent nerve ( H Sol-H Quad ) .
other	They were used as conditioning and test responses in six different combinations , and the results compared to those obtained previously in normal volunteers .
outcome	In spastic patients , heteronymous excitability curves are more obviously modified than homonymous ones .
outcome	The changes are most prominent in the thigh muscles and less marked when the soleus reflex is conditioned by activation of quadriceps and biceps femoris myotatic reflex arcs .

###15909782
background	There is compelling evidence that residents training in primary care need education in palliative care .
background	Evidence for effective curricula is needed .
other	The objective of this study was to test whether a clinical elective improves measures of knowledge and skill .
population	Residents from three categorical training programs in internal medicine were recruited to an elective including clinical experiences in an acute hospital palliative care consultation service , on an acute hospice and palliative care unit , and in-home hospi
other	A 25-question pre - and post-test and a videotaped interview with a standardized patient were used to assess communication skills and measure outcomes .
outcome	Residents demonstrated a 10 percent improvement in knowledge after the four-week elective ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	All residents demonstrated basic competency in communication skills at the end of the rotation .
outcome	These results indicate that clinical rotation shows promise as an educational intervention to improve palliative care knowledge and skills in primary care residents .
outcome	An important limitation of the study is that it is an elective ; further studies with a required rotation and/or a control group are needed to confirm the findings .

###17341052
background	Electrical intracerebral stimulation ( also referred to as deep brain stimulation [ DBS ] ) is a tool for the treatment of chronic pain states that do not respond to less invasive or conservative treatment options .
background	Careful patient selection , accurate target localization , and identification with intraoperative neurophysiological techniques and blinded test evaluation are the key requirements for success and good long-term results .
other	The authors present their experience with DBS for the treatment of various chronic pain syndromes .
population	In this study 56 patients with different forms of neuropathic and mixed nociceptive/neuropathic pain syndromes were treated with DBS according to a rigorous protocol .
other	The postoperative follow-up duration ranged from 1 to 8 years , with a mean of 3.5 years .
intervention	Electrodes were implanted in the somatosensory thalamus and the periventricular gray region .
other	Before implantation of the stimulation device , a double-blinded evaluation was carefully performed to test the effect of each electrode on its own as well as combined stimulation with different parameter settings .
other	The best long-term results were attained in patients with chronic low-back and leg pain , for example , in so-called failed-back surgery syndrome .
outcome	Patients with neuropathic pain of peripheral origin ( such as complex regional pain syndrome Type II ) also responded well to DBS .
outcome	Disappointing results were documented in patients with central pain syndromes , such as pain due to spinal cord injury and poststroke pain .
outcome	Possible reasons for the therapeutic failures are discussed ; these include central reorganization and neuroplastic changes of the pain-transmitting pathways and pain modulation centers after brain and spinal cord lesions .
outcome	The authors found that , in carefully selected patients with chronic pain syndromes , DBS can be helpful and can add to the quality of life .

###10806719
background	To detect breast cancer susceptibility gene ( BRCA1 ) mutation in ovarian cancer and to look for correlations between BRCA1 mutation and hereditary ovarian cancer .
population	Mutation of BRCA1 gene in 4 patients with hereditary ovarian cancer and 31 patients with sporadic ovarian cancer were screened by polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism analysis with non-isotopic silver staining method .
outcome	2 mutations of BRCA1 gene were found in 2 of 3 patients belonged to hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrom ( HBOC ) which were located in exon 2 and 21 respectively .
outcome	No mutation was found in 31 cases of sporadic ovarian cancer and 1 case of hereditary site-specific ovarian cancer .
outcome	BRCA1 mutation was probably closely related to hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome .
outcome	Detection of BRCA1 gene mutation was helpful to diagnose HBOC families .

###10084436
background	To compare the pressor response to static exercise in subjects with cervical spinal cord injury ( SCI ) at the C6 to C8 level with that in able-bodied control subjects .
background	In these SCI subjects , the descending supraspinal sympathetic neurons and afferent pathways from the contracting muscles to peripheral vessels via the medullary cardiovascular center are damaged .
population	Mean arterial blood pressure , heart rate , and plasma concentrations of norepinephrine , epinephrine , renin activity , vasopressin , aldosterone , and human atrial natriuretic peptide were measured during a 2-minute period of sustained contraction of elbow fle
outcome	74.7 + / -2.2 mm Hg ; static exercise , 81.9 + / -4.1 mm Hg ) and control subjects ( pre-exercise , 101.0 + / -4.2 mm Hg ; static exercise , 117.0 + / -4
outcome	In SCI subjects , there was no change in heart rate during exercise , whereas in control subjects heart rate increased during exercise ( p < .05 ) ( pre-exercise , 8.7 + / -3.8 beats/min : static exercise , 76.0 + / -3.1 beats/min ) .
outcome	There were no significant changes in the hormone levels in the SCI subjects throughout the experiment .
outcome	The significant increase in mean blood pressure observed in the present study indicates the presence of peripheral control from muscle receptors and evoked pressor response during static exercise in SCI subjects .

###16005822
background	This article explores the physiologic basis and symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea -- a general term encompassing central sleep apnea and obstructive sleep apnea .
background	The former is relatively uncommon while the latter is much more common .
background	Episodic collapse and blockage of the upper airway occur during sleep despite continuous respiratory effort .
background	Three types of sleep obstructive breathing -- apnea , hypopnea , and airway resistance -- are associated with respiratory-related arousals from sleep .

###16452337
other	PEDIATRICS ( ISSN Numbers Print , 0031-4005 ; Online , 1098-4275 ) .
background	Published in the public domain by the American Academy of Pediatrics.Speech and language development is a useful indicator of a child 's overall development and cognitive ability and is related to school success .
background	Identification of children at risk for developmental delay or related problems may lead to intervention services and family assistance at a young age , when the chances for improvement are best .
background	However , optimal methods for screening for speech and language delay have not been identified , and screening is practiced inconsistently in primary care .
other	We sought to evaluate the strengths and limits of evidence about the effectiveness of screening and interventions for speech and language delay in preschool-aged children to determine the balance of benefits and adverse effects of routine screening in primary care for the development of guidelines by the US Preventive Services Task Force .
population	The target population includes all children up to 5 years old without previously known conditions associated with speech and language delay , such as hearing and neurologic impairments .
other	Studies were identified from Medline , PsycINFO , and CINAHL databases ( 1966 to November 19 , 2004 ) , systematic reviews , reference lists , and experts .
other	The evidence review included only English-language , published articles that are available through libraries .
other	Only randomized , controlled trials were considered for examining the effectiveness of interventions .
other	Outcome measures were considered if they were obtained at any time or age after screening and/or intervention as long as the initial assessment occurred while the child was < or = 5 years old .
other	Outcomes included speech and language measures and other functional and health outcomes such as social behavior .
other	A total of 745 full-text articles met our eligibility criteria and were reviewed .
other	Data were extracted from each included study , summarized descriptively , and rated for quality by using criteria specific to different study designs developed by the US Preventive Services Task Force .
outcome	The use of risk factors for selective screening has not been evaluated , and a list of specific risk factors to guide primary care physicians has not been developed or tested .
outcome	Sixteen studies about potential risk factors for speech and language delay in children enrolled heterogeneous populations , had dissimilar inclusion and exclusion criteria , and measured different risk factors and outcomes .
outcome	The most consistently reported risk factors included a family history of speech and language delay , male gender , and perinatal factors .
outcome	Other risk factors reported less consistently included educational levels of the mother and father , childhood illnesses , birth order , and family size .
outcome	The performance characteristics of evaluation techniques that take < or = 10 minutes to administer were described in 24 studies relevant to screening .
other	Studies that were rated good to fair quality reported wide ranges of sensitivity and specificity when compared with reference standards ( sensitivity 17-100 % ; specificity 45-100 % ) .
other	Most of the evaluations , however , were not designed for screening purposes , the instruments measured different domains , and the study populations and settings were often outside of primary care .
other	No `` gold standard '' has been developed and tested for screening , reference standards varied across studies , few studies compared the performance of > or = 2 screening techniques in 1 population , and comparisons of a single screening technique across different populations are lacking .
other	Fourteen good - and fair-quality randomized , controlled trials of interventions reported significantly improved speech and language outcomes compared with control groups .
outcome	Improvement was demonstrated in several domains including articulation , phonology , expressive language , receptive language , lexical acquisition , and syntax among children in all age groups studied and across multiple therapeutic settings .
outcome	Improvement in other functional outcomes such as socialization skills , self-esteem , and improved play themes were demonstrated in some , but not all , of the 4 studies that measured them .
outcome	In general , studies of interventions were small and heterogeneous , may be subject to plateau effects , and reported short-term outcomes based on various instruments and measures .
outcome	As a result , long-term outcomes are not known , interventions could not be compared directly , and generalizability is questionable .
outcome	Use of risk factors to guide selective screening is not supported by studies .
outcome	Several aspects of screening have been inadequately studied to determine optimal methods , including which instrument to use , the age at which to screen , and which interval is most useful .
other	Trials of interventions demonstrate improvement in some outcome measures , but conclusions and generalizability are limited .
outcome	Data are not available addressing other key issues including the effectiveness of screening in primary care settings , role of enhanced surveillance by primary care physicians before referral for diagnostic evaluation , non-speech and language and long-term

###9694750
background	To evaluate the impact of the revised diagnostic criteria for diabetes mellitus adopted by the American Diabetes Association on prevalence of diabetes and on classification of patients .
background	For epidemiological purposes the American criteria use a fasting plasma glucose concentration > = 7.0 mmol/l in contrast with the current World Health Organisation criteria of 2 hour glucose concentration > = 11.1 mmol/l .
other	Data were collected from 13 populations and three occupational based studies from eight European countries .
other	All studies used a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test to measure fasting and 2 hour glucose concentrations .
population	17 881 men ; 8309 women ; age range 17-92 years .
other	Classification of diabetes according to both sets of criteria .
outcome	The application of the American criteria on European populations induced changes in prevalence of diabetes ranging from a reduction of 4.0 % to an increase of 13.2 % .
outcome	A total of 1517 previously undiagnosed individuals had diabetes according to either the WHO or the American criteria .
outcome	Among 1044 with diabetes according to American criteria , only 45 % had 2 hour values fulfilling the WHO criteria .
outcome	The risk of disagreement of classification decreased with increasing body mass index ( P < 0.00001 ) and increasing age ( P < 0.0001 ) ; the impact of sex was not significant ( P = 0.08 ) .
outcome	This shift in strategy from using 2 hour to fasting plasma glucose will cause an increase in the prevalence of diabetes in some European populations .
outcome	A high degree of disagreement in the classification was observed between the two recommendations .
outcome	Prospective data are needed to evaluate whether the WHO or the American criteria best identify individuals at risk of developing microvascular complications and cardiovascular disease .
outcome	Wider implementation of revised diagnostic criteria should await prospective data .

###2785879
population	Seven hundred ninety-three patients had coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery within 30 days after acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) between August 1982 and July 1987 .
outcome	Hospital mortality was 5.7 % .
outcome	Age , surgical priority , prior CABG surgery , congestive heart failure ( CHF ) , and type of AMI were associated with increased hospital mortality by logistic regression analysis of nine independent variables .
outcome	When the analysis was carried out separately for men and women , the same predictive variables were identified for men , but only surgical priority and age were predictive of operative mortality for women .
outcome	Elective CABG surgery can be carried out at low risk following AMI in stable patients regardless of the interval between AMI and surgery .
outcome	Patients who undergo urgent or emergency surgery and those who have CHF , Q wave infarction , or a history of prior AMI are at increased risk .

###9396468
background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) is associated with a decrease in renal perfusion .
background	Because endothelium-derived NO is important in the regulation of renal blood flow ( RBF ) , we tested the hypothesis that an impairment in the NO system may contribute to the decrease in RBF in rats with experimental CHF .
population	Studies were performed in rats with experimental high-output CHF induced by aortocaval ( AV ) fistula and sham-operated controls .
outcome	In controls , incremental doses of acetylcholine ( ACh , 1 to 100 microg x kg ( -1 ) x min ( -1 ) ) increased RBF and caused a dose-related decrease in renal vascular resistance ( RVR ) .
outcome	However , the increase in RBF and decrease in RVR were markedly attenuated in rats with CHF .
outcome	Likewise , the effects of ACh on urinary sodium and cGMP excretion were also diminished in CHF rats , as was the renal vasodilatory effect of the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine ( SNAP ) .
outcome	These attenuated responses to endothelium-dependent and - independent renal vasodilators in CHF rats occurred despite a normal baseline and stimulated NO2 + NO3 excretion and normal expression of renal endothelial NO synthase ( eNOS ) , as determined by eNOS mR
outcome	Infusion of the NO precursor L-arginine did not affect baseline RBF or the response to ACh in rats with CHF .
outcome	However , administration of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist A81988 before ACh completely restored the renal vasodilatory response to ACh in CHF rats .
outcome	This study demonstrates that despite a significant attenuation in the NO-related renal vasodilatory responses , the integrity of the renal NO system is preserved in rats with chronic AV fistula .
outcome	This impairment in NO-mediated renal vasodilation in experimental CHF appears to be related to increased activity of the renin-angiotensin system and may contribute further to the decrease in renal perfusion seen in CHF .

###11284548
background	Endothelial-derived prostacyclin is an important regulator of microvascular function , and its main actions are inhibition of platelet/leukocyte aggregation and adhesion , and vasodilation .
background	Disturbances in endothelial integrity following traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) may result in insufficient prostacyclin production and participate in the pathophysiological sequelae of brain injury .
other	The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential therapeutic effects of a low-dose prostacyclin infusion on cortical lesion volume , CA3 neuron survival and functional outcome following TBI in the rat .
population	Anesthetized animals ( sodium pentobarbital , 60 mg/kg , i.p. ) were subjected to a lateral fluid percussion brain injury ( 2.5 atm ) or sham injury .
intervention	Following TBI , animals were randomized to receive a constant infusion of either prostacyclin ( 1 ng/kg x min ( -1 ) i.v. ) or vehicle over 48 h.
intervention	All sham animals received vehicle ( n = 6 ) .
other	Evaluation of neuromotor function , lesion volume , and CA3 neuronal loss was performed blindly .
outcome	By 7 days postinjury , cortical lesion volume was significantly reduced by 43 % in the prostacyclin-treated group as compared to the vehicle treated group ( p < 0.01 ; n = 12 prostacyclin , n = 12 vehicle ) .
outcome	No differences were observed in neuromotor function ( 48 h and 7 days following TBI ) , or in hippocampal cell loss ( 7 days following TBI ) between the prostacyclin - and vehicle-treated groups .
outcome	We conclude that prostacyclin in a low dose reduces loss of neocortical neurons following TBI and may be a potential clinical therapeutic agent to reduce neuronal cell death associated with brain trauma .

###9806317
background	Obesity is characterised by growth hormone ( GH ) abnormalities , including a blunted response to stimulation and a ` paradoxical ' increase after meals .
background	The blunted GH release is reversed by a surgical intestinal bypass procedure .
background	However , this does not mean that normal GH dynamics have been restored .
background	The present study assessed whether post-surgical weight reduction in obese patients normalised the modulation of GH release produced by metabolic fuels .
population	Ten obese female subjects , aged 23-54 y , were studied before and after biliopancreatic diversion ( BPD ) .
outcome	All patients , after surgery , had experienced a significant reduction in body weight ( mean body mass index ( BMI ) 25.78 + / - 1.01 kg/m2 vs 44.68 + / - 1.73 kg/m2 ) .
population	Two groups were also studied as controls : Ten normal body weight female subjects and ten patients suffering from anorexia nervosa ( AN , mean BMI 17.46 + / - 1.12 kg/m2 ) .
other	We have studied the GH response to a GH releasing hormone ( GHRH ) bolus ( 1 microg/kg i.v. , at 13.00 h ) before and after a standard meal .
outcome	In post-BPD subjects , the GH response to GHRH in the fasting state , was clearly augmented in comparison with the pre-BPD values ( peak values 18.06 + / - 4.56 vs 3.24 + / - 0.68 microg/L ) .
outcome	In post-BPD subjects the postprandial GH response was further augmented in comparison with the fasting test ( peak 30.12 + / - 4.99 microg/L , P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	This pattern was similar to that observed in anorexic patients .
outcome	The surgical procedure restores a normal GH response to GHRH in the fasting state , but the ` paradoxical ' GH response after meals remains present , suggesting a persistent GH derangement in such patients , which is not related to body weight per se .
outcome	The surgical procedure makes obese patients similar to anorexics , in the relationships between metabolic fuels and GH secretion .
outcome	The persistence of the GH postprandial response to GHRH in post-BPD subjects suggests a role for metabolic fuels in the regulation of somatostatin ( SRIF ) secretion .

###11251396
background	This study was done to evaluate the effect of spinal cord stimulation ( SCS ) on critical limb ischemia and to report technical problems and complications .
population	One hundred and twenty patients with critical limb ischemia were eligible for randomization between medical treatment and medical treatment plus SCS .
intervention	Sixty received a spinal cord stimulator ( Itrel II ; Medtronic , Minneapolis , Minn. , USA ) .
other	Primary outcome measures were limb salvage and pain relief .
outcome	The mean pain reduction in both treatment groups was 50 % ( from 5 to 2.5 on the visual analog scale ) .
outcome	The 2-year limb survival was 52 % ( SCS ) versus 46 % ( standard treatment ; p = 0.47 ) .
outcome	The number of patients undergoing major amputations in the SCS group with intermediate TcpO2 values was half of that in the standard group ( 14 vs. 28 ; 24 vs. 48 % ; p = 0.17 ) .
outcome	Implantation was successful in 51 patients .
outcome	Technical problems such as loss of stimulation due to lead displacement occurred in 13 patients ( 22 % ) , local infection at the site of implantation occurred in 3 patients ( 5 % ) , resulting in a total complication rate of 27 % .
outcome	Premature depletion of the battery occurred within 2 years in 3 patients ( 5 % ) .
outcome	There were no lead fractures , epidural infections , hematoma or cerebrospinal fluid leakage .
outcome	Training of physicians and better reliability of the hardware should reduce the frequency of technical problems .
outcome	Lead displacement remains the major technical problem .
outcome	The search for prognostic factors of limb salvage is important .
outcome	One microcirculatory measurement ( TcpO2 ) seems to have a prognostic value , which remains to be described more precisely .

###16142502
background	Vertebral fractures are the most common osteoporotic fracture and may result in back pain with functional limitations and diminished quality of life .
background	Teriparatide [ rhPTH ( 1-34 ) ] has been shown to increase bone mass and reduce the risk of vertebral and other osteoporotic fractures .
population	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of teriparatide on the risk of back pain in patients with osteoporosis .
study design	A systematic review of the literature was performed , and five trials were identified and included in our analyses .
other	All trials were randomized , double-blinded , and parallel with either new vertebral fracture ( n = 1 ) or bone mineral density as the primary endpoint ( n = 4 ) .
other	Four studies were in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , and one was in men with idiopathic or hypogonadal osteoporosis .
other	Two trials were placebo controlled , two trials were alendronate controlled , and one trial involved teriparatide plus hormone replacement therapy versus hormone replacement therapy alone .
other	Reports of back pain , defined as new or worsened back pain after initiating the study drug , were obtained from adverse event databases , and the risk of back pain was analyzed using a multivariate Cox proportional hazards model .
outcome	Results were not statistically heterogeneous ( P = 0.60 ) across trials , and there were no differences between groups administered teriparatide 20 or 40 mcg/day doses ( P = 0.64 ) .
outcome	The rates of back pain , moderate or severe back pain , and severe back pain per 100 patient-years were numerically lower in the teriparatide versus comparator groups in each study .
outcome	Compared with the pooled comparator , patients in the pooled teriparatide group had reduced risk for any back pain [ relative risk , 0.66 ( 95 % CI , 0.55-0 .80 ) ] , moderate or severe back pain [ relative risk , 0.60 ( 95 % CI , 0.48-0 .75 ) ] and severe back pain [ relat
outcome	Separate meta-analyses comparing teriparatide versus placebo or antiresorptive drugs gave similar results .
outcome	In conclusion , patients randomized to teriparatide had a reduced risk of new or worsening back pain compared to patients randomized to placebo , hormone replacement therapy or alendronate .

###7856687
background	We attempted to determine whether gynecologic histories differ in women who have and have not experienced an early menopause .
population	A group of 344 `` case '' women whose average age at menopause was 42.2 years and an age-matched group of 344 `` control '' women still menstruating or menopausal after age 46 were selected from a survey of 10,606 women aged 45 to 54 years for
outcome	Case women were more likely to have had menarche at or before age 11 , had shorter cycle lengths , had fewer pregnancies with live births , and had more frequent pelvic operations including unilateral oophorectomy and multiple cesarean sections .
outcome	Case women had a greater number of presumed ovulatory cycles , as estimated from age at menarche , average cycle length , and years of anovulation associated with pregnancies or oral contraceptive use .
outcome	In a multivariate model including smoking status and body mass index , ovulatory cycles were a significant predictor of early menopause , especially after an estimated 300 ovulations .
outcome	The reproductive histories of women who experienced an early menopause suggest a pattern of more rapid oocyte loss ( `` incessant '' ovulation ) .

###16643308
background	Magnetic resonance ( MR ) - based techniques are widely used for the assessment of patients with suspected and definite multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
background	However , despite the publication of several position papers , which attempted to define the utility of MR techniques in the management of MS , their application in everyday clinical practice is still suboptimal .
background	This is probably related , not only , to the fact that the majority of published guidelines focused on the optimization of MR technology in clinical trials , but also to the continuing development of modern , quantitative MR-based techniques , that have not as
outcome	The present report summarizes the conclusions of the ` EFNS Expert Panel of Neuroimaging of MS ' on the application of conventional and non-conventional MR techniques to the clinical management of patients with MS.
outcome	These guidelines are intended to assist in the use of conventional MRI for the diagnosis and longitudinal monitoring of patients with MS.
outcome	In addition , they should provide a foundation for the development of more widespread but rational clinical applications of non-conventional MR-based techniques in studies of MS patients .

###11945138
background	The recent literature on the antinociceptive action of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists is reviewed with special emphasis on their clinical potential .
background	Actually the glutamatergic pathways descending from the brain stem into the spinal cord may generate analgesia .
background	However , physiologically more important is that glutamate and aspartate are apparently the main neurotransmitters along the ascending nociceptive pathways in the spinal cord .
background	Glutamate , aspartate and their receptors can be detected in particularly high concentrations in the dorsal root ganglia and the superficial laminae ( I , II ) of the spinal cord .
background	In low doses glutamate receptor antagonists only slightly elevate the threshold of the physiological pain sensation .
background	However , they suppress the process of pathological sensitisation i.e. lowering of the pain threshold seen upon excessive or lasting stimulation of C-fibre afferents , a process that takes place during inflammation or other kinds of tissue injury .
background	At electrophysiological level antagonists of both the NMDA - and AMPA/kainate receptors inhibit wind up i.e. lasting activation of the polymodal , second-order sensory neurones in the deeper layers of the dorsal horn .
background	During sensitisation the resting Mg ( + + ) blockade of transmembrane Ca ( + + ) channels is abolished , certain second messenger pathways are activated , the transcription of many genes is enhanced leading to overproduction of glutamate and other excitatory neurot
background	This cascade of events leads to increased excitability of the pain pathways .
background	NMDA antagonists are apparently more potent in experimental models of neuropathic pain , whereas AMPA antagonists are more effective in abolition of hyperalgesia seen during experimental inflammation .
background	Clinically , of the previously known NMDA antagonists amantadine , dextromethorphan and ketamine have been tested , the latter extensively .
background	Ketamine has been found quite active in certain cases of neuropathic pain and it reduced the opiate demand when used for postoperative analgesia .
background	However , in other types of clinical pain their efficacy is less convincing .
other	Not being registered there are no clinical data on the AMPA antagonists .
background	There are , however , some investigational new drugs and some novel compounds in the stage of preclinical development which antagonise the AMPA receptors in competitive fashion or allosterically .
background	Of the latter molecules 2,3-benzodiazepines are particularly promising .

###17299744
background	This review provides a comprehensive overview of the clinical uses of neuromuscular electrical stimulation ( NMES ) for functional and therapeutic applications in subjects with spinal cord injury or stroke .
intervention	Functional applications refer to the use of NMES to activate paralyzed muscles in precise sequence and magnitude to directly accomplish functional tasks .
outcome	In therapeutic applications , NMES may lead to a specific effect that enhances function , but does not directly provide function .
other	The specific neuroprosthetic or `` functional '' applications reviewed in this article include upper - and lower-limb motor movement for self-care tasks and mobility , respectively , bladder function , and respiratory control .
outcome	Specific therapeutic applications include motor relearning , reduction of hemiplegic shoulder pain , muscle strengthening , prevention of muscle atrophy , prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis , improvement of tissue oxygenation and peripheral hemodynamic func
outcome	Perspectives on future developments and clinical applications of NMES are presented .

###16133744
background	Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) modulate immune responses particularly by affecting T cell function and are applied clinically as adjuvant immunosuppressants in the treatment of various inflammatory diseases .
background	However , the molecular mechanisms of PUFA-induced immunosuppressive effects are not yet elucidated .
background	Membrane lipid rafts are functional plasma membrane microdomains characterized by a unique lipid environment .
background	Since lipid interactions are crucial for the formation of lipid rafts , the immunomodulatory effects of PUFAs may be due to changes of fatty acid composition in lipid rafts.AIM OF THE STUDY :
population	We investigated the effects of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA , 20:5 n - 3 ) supplementation on modulating lipid composition and fatty acyl substitution in their cytoplasmic and exoplasmic lipid leaflet in lipid rafts.METHODS : The human Jurkat E6-1 T cells were
other	Lipid rafts were isolated by discontinuous sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation .
other	The lipids in raft and soluble fractions from EPA-treated and control T cells were extracted and separated by gas chromatography .
outcome	Raft phospholipids were analyzed by mass spectrometry.RESULTS : Our results showed that EPA treatment could alter lipid composition resulting in a considerable increase of unsaturated fatty acyl chains in lipid rafts from EPA-treated T cells compared with
outcome	Effective incorporation of EPA to rafts was not only in the exoplasmic but also in the cytoplasmic membrane lipid leaflet .
outcome	EPA treatment altered the lipid environment in lipid rafts .
outcome	EPA presented an inhibiting effect on Jurkat T cells proliferation and inhibited IL-2Ralpha expression on the surface of T cells.CONCLUSIONS : Our data provided evidence for an important modification in lipid composition of membrane lipid rafts and T cell

###9300127
outcome	A cytotoxic factor ( CF ) appeared in murine serum after the intravenous injection of the dehydrogenation polymers ( DHPs ) of p-coumaric acid ( DHP-pCA ) , caffeic acid ( DHP-CA ) , and ferulic acid ( DHP-FA ) , which are categorized as a class of synthetic lignins .
outcome	The highest CF activity was observed 15 min after the i.v. injection of DHP-pCA .
background	CF is likely to be cytocidal through an apoptotic mechanism accompanied by nucleosome-sized DNA fragmentation .
background	CF is extractable with aqueous ethanol and highly stable against heat , proteases , and acid/alkali treatments .
outcome	The ethanol extract showed cytotoxicity toward various cultured cell lines and also ascites carcinoma cells in vivo .
outcome	The parent molecules DHPs did not show any appreciable cytotoxicity .
outcome	After the induction of CF activity , the activity quickly diminished and completely disappeared from the blood stream within an hour or so .
outcome	The cytotoxicity was observed only when the target cells were exposed to CF for longer than 10 h.

###16961082
background	Vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) result in severe and disabling pain , diminished quality of life , and substantial medical costs .
background	There exists no standard instrument with which to measure pain and functional status before and after treatment of VCFs .
population	A questionnaire was specifically developed to assess pain and disability in patients with VCFs before and after undergoing percutaneous polymethylmethacrylate-augmented vertebroplasty .
other	The first section of the baseline questionnaire ( before treatment ) contains 11 items that address the patient 's previous and current levels of back pain and distress .
other	The follow-up questionnaire ( after treatment ) is similar in format .
outcome	Among 72 vertebroplasty-treated patients , the internal consistency reliability of the 24 ADLs ranged from 0.87 to 0.98 , with similar results observed before and after treatment .
outcome	Correlations of 0.29 to 0.72 were observed among the 24 ADLs and the internal measures of pain and distress measured on both visual analog and adjectival scales .
outcome	Similar correlations ( range 0.35-0 .63 ) were observed between the questionnaire and 10 dimensions of the Oswestry Disability Index 's low-back pain questionnaire , an external instrument used to assess criterion-referenced validity .
outcome	Evidence in support of the validity of the questionnaire was present before and after treatment .
outcome	The Vertebral Compression Fracture Pain and Functional Disability Questionnaire appears to be a reliable and valid instrument for assessing back pain and functional ability in patients before and after treatment for VCFs .

###12433890
background	To determine tolerability and symptom changes associated with the introduction of bisoprolol treatment in older patients with heart failure .
study design	Prospective observational cohort study .
other	Geriatric medicine outpatient department of a university hospital .
population	51 patients ( mean age 78 years , range 70-89 years ) with stable symptomatic heart failure caused by left ventricular systolic dysfunction .
intervention	Bisoprolol tablets , 1.25-10 .0 mg .
other	Tolerability ; changes in symptoms and exercise tolerance .
outcome	69 % of patients tolerated bisoprolol .
outcome	Mean tolerated dose was 7.6 mg .
outcome	There was no change in symptoms or exercise capacity in those who tolerated bisoprolol .
outcome	Perceived health status and symptoms of anxiety and depression improved during the titration period .
outcome	The rate of withdrawal from bisoprolol treatment in older patients with congestive heart failure was twice that previously reported in younger patients .
outcome	The mean tolerated dose was similar to that found in trials reporting clinical efficacy .
outcome	There was no evidence of a negative impact on symptoms or exercise capacity in patients who tolerated bisoprolol .

###9805725
background	In this paper , we describe the conceptual bases and methodology used to assess women 's and providers ' perception of the quality of antenatal care , as part of a large randomised trial in four developing countries .
background	Information has been obtained by applying both qualitative and quantitative methodologies .
background	The focus group discussions and in-depth interviews have contributed useful insights into the cultural milieu in which care is provided , users ' and providers ' expectations , and their concept of quality .
background	Based on these findings , we developed two standardised questionnaires , one being administered to a representative sample of pregnant women ( n = 1600 ) and the other for all care providers .
background	In this paper we present some of the findings of the focus group discussions and in-depth interviews with women in one country as an example of the kind of information we have obtained .
background	Women expressed their point of view concerning a reduced number of visits , type of provider , information that they get during clinical encounters and interpersonal relations with health professionals .
background	The qualitative information , together with the data we obtain from the surveys , will highlight the aspects that will have be to considered if the new model of care is to be introduced on a routine basis.Measurement of the subjective dimension of the quali
background	The World Health Organization ( WHO ) Antenatal Care Randomized Controlled Trial , underway in 53 clinics in Argentina , Cuba , Thailand , and Saudi Arabia , will apply both quantitative and qualitative methodologies to an assessment of client and staff satisfac
background	Specifically , the study addresses user and provider perceptions of quality in the context of a wide spectrum of ethnic backgrounds , social strata , organization of health services , and medical cultures .
population	The research instrument consists of questions that explore the preferences of 1600 women and their providers in terms of the number of prenatal care visits , provider type and gender , time spent in the waiting room and with the provider , and amount and app
outcome	Preliminary results from focus groups and in-depth interviews indicate that women are concerned about the safety of the reduced number of visits during pregnancy ( four for low-risk women ) inherent in the experimental regimen , prefer to receive care from s
outcome	Such qualitative information , together with data obtained from questionnaires , will highlight areas that must be addressed if the new prenatal care model is to be introduced on a routine basis.americasarab countriesargentinaasiabehaviorcaribbeancross sect

###15278749
background	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of alendronate on metacarpal and lumbar bone mineral density ( BMD ) , bone resorption , and chronic back pain in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis .
population	Eighty postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , 59-88 years of age , were divided into two groups of 40 each according to the site of BMD measurement : the metacarpus ( M ) and the lumbar spine ( L ) .
intervention	All of them were treated with alendronate ( 5 mg/day ) for 12 months .
other	Metacarpal or lumbar BMD was measured by computed X-ray densitometry or dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in the M or the L group , respectively , at baseline and every 6 months .
other	Urinary cross-linked N-terminal telopeptides of type I collagen ( NTX ) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , and chronic back pain was evaluated by face scale score at baseline and every 6 months in both groups .
outcome	There were no significant differences in baseline characteristics , including age , body mass index , years since menopause , urinary NTX level , face scale score , or number of prevalent vertebral fractures per patient between the two groups .
outcome	Urinary NTX level was reduced and chronic back pain was improved similarly in both groups .
outcome	Whereas metacarpal BMD did not significantly change in the M group ( 0.20 % increase ) , lumbar BMD increased by 8.15 % in the L group .
outcome	These results suggest that although alendronate increases BMD of the lumbar spine , which is rich in cancellous bone , and improves chronic back pain , with suppression of bone resorption in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , it may fail to increase cor

###1444769
background	Hip flexor spasticity , which is often associated with central nervous system ( CNS ) diseases , is a major impediment in rehabilitation .
background	In order to cope with this problem , lumbar nerve blocking techniques developed by Meelhuysen and major and minor psoas muscle blocking techniques developed by Awad have been used in combination with physical therapies .
background	Based on these techniques , we conducted major and minor psoas muscle phenol block ( motor point block or intramuscular nerve block ) under ultrasonic monitoring .
population	Phenol block was conducted in nine patients with cerebral infarction ( 13 blocking procedures ) and three with spinal cord injuries ( six blocking procedures ) while keeping them in a lateral position with the operation side upside .
other	The beginning of the femoral nerves and part of the lumbar artery were visualized by ultrasound in some patients .
outcome	As a result of the improvement of hip flexor spasticity , the range of hip joint motion ( determined by the Mundale technique , prone hip extension and Thomas test ) improved shortly after blocking .
outcome	When physical therapy was conducted after blocking , improvement of skin care management was observed in eight cases , ability to keep in a stable sitting position in nine , improvement of a standing posture in three , increases in the ability to walk in two
outcome	Although nerve block is reported to result in hematoma , decreases in muscle force , pain , cystic/rectal disorders and hypogonadism , we have observed no such complication in our patients .

###1829622
background	During the past year , investigations involving the etiology , diagnostic evaluation , and therapy of low back pain have reported interesting new data .
background	The natural history of degenerative intervertebral disk disease may be explained by peripheral annular fiber injury that results in damage to the nucleus pulposus .
background	Diurnal changes in patient clinical symptoms and signs may have a correlate in alteration of spinal mechanics that occurs during the course of a day .
background	The diagnostic evaluation of low back pain continues to be revolutionized by magnetic resonance imaging .
background	Although magnetic resonance imaging is able to detect specific lesions with greater sensitivity than other radiographic techniques , correlation between clinical symptoms and signs and anatomic abnormalities is essential for correct diagnosis .
background	Therapeutic controversies continue concerning the efficacy of chiropractic intervention and transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation for low back pain patients .
background	Microsurgical techniques for disk removal may prove to be associated with less morbidity than diskectomy with laminectomy , but require additional study .

###11926327
background	An interactive data management ( IDM ) system for the Spinal Cord Injury ( SCI ) Service was developed to collect self-reported patient data related to secondary medical complications and to provide feedback to the SCI rehabilitation team .
background	The long-term objective is to improve clinical care through a process of staff review of current rehabilitation programs in the areas of prevalence , prevention , and management .
population	Based on data from the first 99 SCI patients visiting the clinic and hospital after the installation of the IDM system , SCI patients reported high rates of current problems with spasticity ( 53 percent ) , pain ( 44 percent ) , and pressure ulcers ( 38 percent ) .
other	Respiratory ( 12 percent ) and bowel ( 14 percent ) problems were less common current problems .
other	The SCI staff questioned the reportedly high spasticity rates .
outcome	They thought that the patients ' answers might have indicated simply the occurrence of spasticity , rather than the more important issue of severe spasticity that interferes with daily activities .
outcome	The staff suggested several additional spasticity questions to add to the study .
outcome	In other areas , only a small percentage of patients wanted to talk with a therapist about prevention of pressure ulcers .
outcome	Patients who had urinary problems consistently reported five urinary signs ( e.g. , cloudy urine ) .
outcome	The clinical staff found these data informative and stated that they should continue to be collected .

###10325286
background	Here we report the first case of prenatally diagnosed fetal renal mesoblastic nephroma occurring after transfer of a cryopreserved embryo .
background	A 37 year old woman , having immunological infertility , was treated by in-vitro fertilization ( IVF ) and embryo transfer .
other	Following unsuccessful IVF using fresh embryos , the patient conceived after transfer of cryopreserved-thawed embryos .
background	The chromosomal analysis identified a normal karyotype at 16 weeks ' gestation when amniocentesis was performed .
background	The pregnancy course was uneventful until 28 weeks ' gestation when polyhydramnios associated with fetal renal tumour was detected using ultrasonography .
outcome	A male infant weighing 2564 g was born via Caesarean section at 34 weeks ' gestation .
outcome	A left nephrectomy was performed 5 days after delivery and the tumour was identified histologically as a mesoblastic nephroma .
outcome	The postoperative course was uncomplicated to this point .

###18849799
background	With the advent of holo-body computed tomography scanning of trauma patients , the radiologic diagnosis of transverse process fractures ( TPF ) has increased .
other	The significance of this fracture has not been elucidated .
background	Spine service ( neurosurgical or orthopedic ) consultation is frequently requested for patients with these fractures , stressing constraints on these practices .
other	We hypothesize that isolated transverse process fractures ( iTPF ) are structurally and neurologically stable injuries , which do not require spine service intervention .
study design	Patients for this retrospective , institutional review board-approved study were identified by reviewing the daily neurosurgical census from July 2004 to February 2007 .
population	Data were collected by chart review on all patients with TPF-grouped into isolated fractures ( iTPF ) and fractures with other associated spinal injuries ( aTPF ) .
other	Other parameters evaluated included fracture location , other spinal injuries , nonspinal injuries , mechanical stability , neurologic findings , pain , and treatment ( surgical stabilization or decompression or bracing or both ) .
other	Eighty-four patients with one or more TPF were identified-47 with iTPF and 37 with aTPF .
outcome	All iTPF and aTPF patients were found to be neurologically intact .
outcome	No patients with iTPF required surgery or bracing for spinal stability , but 4 aTPF needed surgery and 18 aTPF required bracing with a total of 22 requiring neurosurgical intervention ( p < 0.0001 ) .
outcome	However , none of these patients received treatment for the TPF .
outcome	Twenty-five patients had associated abdominal injuries ( 16 of 46 iTPF , 9 of 37 aTPF , p = 0.3335 ) .
outcome	iTPF are not associated with neurologic deficit or structural instability requiring spine service intervention .
outcome	Therefore , conservative management without neurosurgical or orthopedic consultation is appropriate .
outcome	When TPF are identified , diligence in searching for other spinal injuries or abdominal injuries should be exercised , as these associated injuries occur frequently .

###16050925
background	To examine the performance of two widely used outcome measures in public adult mental health services .
population	As part of a larger study , clinical staff in eight New Zealand District Health Board areas collected consumer outcomes data for a period of 6 months .
other	Among other measures , the Health of the Nation Outcome Scales ( HoNOS ) and Life Skills Profile ( LSP-16 ) were completed at the start and end of episodes of care , as well as at 90-day reviews .
outcome	The performance of these two measures was examined in relation to compliance with the data collection protocol , item completion rates , certain psychometric properties , the relationship between them and the relationship of each instrument to the age , sex ,
outcome	Compliance with the HoNOS was superior to the LSP-16 , but the reverse was true for completion .
outcome	The two instruments were strongly correlated , but not enough to suggest that one may substitute for the other .
outcome	A five-subscale structure for the HoNOS was supported .
outcome	Certain HoNOS subscales were associated with age , but the total score was not , and differences between the sexes were small .
outcome	Some large diagnostic differences were observed on both instruments .
outcome	All LSP-16 summary scores and all HoNOS summary scores apart from Depression were higher ( worse ) in involuntary episodes .
outcome	Only one LSP-16 item , relating to work potential , was related to age and men generally scored higher ( worse ) than women .
outcome	From a technical perspective , the HoNOS and LSP-16 appear suitable for routine collection .
outcome	New Zealand has adopted the HoNOS for routine use but not the LSP-16 because of local concerns about its appropriateness and acceptability .
outcome	The clinician-rated measures reported here need to be complemented by both consumer-rated and family/carer measures .

###1627411
background	Vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) may be defined radiographically or as a clinical event .
background	The prevalence of these fractures in women aged 50 and over has been estimated at 26 % when defined as a reduction in vertebral height greater than 15 % .
background	Retrospective reviews of case records have shown a clinical detection rate of VCF in white women of 153/100 ,000 person years .
background	Of these clinically detected VCFs , 84 % were associated with pain .
background	VCF may be defined as a clinical event characterised by loss of height and acute pain .
background	The pain of acute fracture usually lasts 4 to 6 weeks with intense pain at the site of fracture .
background	Chronic pain may also occur in patients with multiple compression fractures , height loss and low bone density but is probably due to structural changes or osteoarthritis .
background	Radiographic VCF may not be symptomatic .
background	The greater the deformity , the greater the likelihood of pain and disability .
background	As height is lost , patients experience discomfort from the rib cage pressing downward on the pelvis .
background	Patients develop a thoracic kyphosis , a lumbar lordosis , and a protuberant abdomen with prominent horizontal skinfold creases .
background	The reduced thoracic space may result in decreased exercise tolerance and reduced abdominal space may give rise to early satiety and weight loss .
background	Sleep disorders may also occur .
background	Patients lose self esteem .
background	Self care may become difficult .
background	They are often depressed .
background	They become fearful of further fracture .
background	They have distorted body image and poor health perception .
background	Patients with one vertebral fracture are at increased risk of peripheral fracture and further vertebral fracture .
background	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###12611838
background	Antenatal depression is a significant risk factor for postpartum depression , with a 10 % -12 % prevalence in all pregnancies .
background	Rates of depression are higher for pregnant women with chronic stressors , financial and housing problems , and inadequate social support .
background	Despite the prevalence and associated family and infant morbidity , there are no controlled clinical treatment trials regarding this topic , to the authors ' knowledge .
background	APA has identified treatment of depression during pregnancy as a priority for clinical guidelines .
study design	A 16-week bilingual controlled clinical trial compared a group receiving interpersonal psychotherapy for antepartum depression to a parenting education control program .
population	Fifty outpatient antepartum women who met DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder were randomly assigned to interpersonal psychotherapy or a didactic parenting education program .
other	Thirty-eight women remained in the study and were included in the data analysis .
other	Depressed mood was measured with the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale , the Beck Depression Inventory , and the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale .
other	The Clinical Global Impression ( CGI ) and the Hamilton depression scale measured recovery .
outcome	The interpersonal psychotherapy treatment group showed significant improvement compared to the parenting education control program on all three measures of mood at termination .
outcome	Recovery criteria were met in 60 % of the women treated with interpersonal psychotherapy , according to a CGI score of < or = 2 .
outcome	In addition , there was a significant correlation between maternal mood and mother-infant interaction .
outcome	Interpersonal psychotherapy is an effective method of antidepressant treatment during pregnancy and should be a first-line treatment in the hierarchy of treatment for antepartum depression .

###12465733
background	Acute pancreatitis can result in pancreatic ischaemia and necrosis .
background	Pancreatic duct ( PD ) obstruction may be the first step causing ischaemia in acute pancreatitis .
background	Nitric oxide donors can attenuate acute pancreatitis through improvement in compromised pancreatic perfusion ( PP ) .
other	In this study , we determined if ( 1 ) PD obstruction altered PP and ( 2 ) PD decompression or L-arginine administration reversed this change .
population	Fifteen Australian possums were randomly assigned to two groups :
intervention	Animals in group A ( n = 6 ) were subjected to 30 min of PD obstruction and 60 min of PD decompression .
intervention	Animals in group B ( n = 9 ) were subjected to 120 min PD ligation and 60 min PD decompression .
intervention	A subset group B ( n = 6 ) were subjected to intravenous L-arginine ( 100 microg/kg ) at the end of 120 min of ligation and at the end of PD decompression .
other	The PP ( Laser Doppler fluxmetry ) , PD pressure and blood pressure were continuously monitored .
outcome	PD pressure increased from 2.9 + / - 2.5 to 18.1 + / - 4.9 mmHg following PD ligation .
outcome	PP was reduced to 67.1 % + / - 4.5 % ( P < 0.01 ) and 46.2 % + / - 7.5 % ( P < 0.001 ) of baseline following 30 and 120 min of PD ligation , respectively .
outcome	Following 60 min of PD decompression , PP was restored to 89.1 % + / - 13.4 % ( P < 0.02 ) of the baseline in the 30-min group .
outcome	However , following 120 min PD ligation , PP remained depressed .
outcome	L-arginine administration after 120 min of PD ligation transiently increased PP from 46.2 % + / - 7.5 % to 81.1 % + / - 8.6 % ( P < 0.03 ) of baseline .
outcome	This effect was reproduced if L-arginine was administered at the end of decompression ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	In patients with acute pancreatitis due to obstructive causes , early decompression of the PD may prevent early pancreatic ischaemia .

###1493344
background	To assess the efficacy of acute intrathecal ( i.t. ) baclofen on chronic , dysesthetic , and spasm-related pain ( SRP ) among patients with spinal spasticity [ i.e. , multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , spinal cord injury ( SCI ) , transverse myelitis ( TMy ) ] .
study design	Double-blind , randomized , and placebo ( vehicle ) controlled trials ( n = 7 ) , and nonrandomized , nonblinded trials ( n = 2 ) .
other	In-patient program at Samaritan Rehabilitation Institute , Phoenix , Arizona , U.S.A.
population	INT
other	Electromyographic ( EMG ) activity ; intravesical and intraurethral pressures ; Ashworth Scale and tendon response values ; visual analog scales for describing dysesthetic pain intensity ; and threshold/EMG relationships after controlled pinch as an indication of nociceptive pain .
outcome	i.t. baclofen ( a ) caused marked reduction of segmental reflexes before suppression of intersegmental reflexes ; ( b ) significantly suppressed dysesthetic pain and SRP with temporal dissociation ; and ( 3 ) did not influence pinch-induced and musculoskeletal ( l
outcome	The suppressive action of i.t. baclofen on spontaneous and evoked ( allodynia ) dysesthetic pain suggests that a dysfunctional spinal gamma-aminobutyric acidB receptor system , including functional supersensitivity , is associated with the phenomenon of centr
outcome	Temporal dissociation regarding the action on dysesthetic pain and SRP suggests that disparate central mechanisms subserve the two clinical states .

###7575212
population	A prospective study was designed to follow patients with syndromes of brain stem during 12 months ( in 1991-1992 ) .
background	The aim was to correlate clinical and radiologic findings and comparing them with the classical descriptions of brain stem syndromes .
other	Twenty one consecutive patients were admitted at the Hospital de Base do Distrito Federal .
other	The diagnosis and the follow up were carried out by neurological examination and neuroradiologic images CT ( 100 % ) , angiography ( 24 % , 5 ) and MRI ( 5 % , 1 ) .
outcome	Hypertension and old age were the most important risk factors and hemorrhage at pons with extension to midbrain was the most frequent finding .
outcome	Coma at admission was associated to a poor outcome .
outcome	The outcome was defined by the Glasgow Outcome Scale : 28 % rated 5 , 24 % rated 4 , 5 % rated 3 , 28 % rated 2 and 14 % rated 1 .
outcome	Our results show that the clinical presentation of ischemic strokes and hemorrhages of the brain stem very frequently follow a mixed pattern , which do not conciliate with the classical of these syndromes .

###16940876
background	Ulcerative colitis , a chronic inflammatory disease of the rectal and colonic mucosa , affects approximately 250,000 to 500,000 people in the United States , with 30 % to 40 % of patients requiring some form of surgical intervention during the course of their
background	The predominant reason for total proctocolectomy is for symptoms refractory to currently available medical therapy .
background	Less common reasons are dysplasia or cancer .
background	The goal of colectomy is to prevent recurrence of systemic inflammatory disease .
intervention	Consequently , surgery with total proctocolectomy and creation of an ileal J-pouch-anal anastomosis has become the procedure of choice for many patients without other therapeutic options .
outcome	Health-related quality of life ( QOL ) in patients with severe ulcerative colitis is so poor that , after ileal J-pouch-anal anastomosis , QOL is considered to improve in most clinical studies ( 8 studies , improved QOL ; 1 study , no change ; 1 study , QOL worse t
outcome	However , QOL and bowel function after such surgery can not be considered `` normal '' in all patients , because a substantial number still have problems with urgency , leakage , nocturnal soiling , sexual dysfunction , and pouchitis , and some require conv
outcome	Thus , despite the availability of ileal J-pouch-anal anastomosis , surgery does not always restore all aspects of QOL to normal .

###12109610
background	Mechanical bowel preparation before colonic surgery is widely advocated but remains controversial .
background	Recent guidelines published by the Clinical Standards Board for Scotland recommend mechanical bowel preparation prior to surgery for all colorectal cancers but this may be inappropriate .
intervention	This study examines the outcome of a policy of no mechanical preparation before elective right hemicolectomy .
population	Data on 102 consecutive patients undergoing elective right or extended right hemicolectomy for colonic adenocarcinoma were extracted from a prospective database .
outcome	No clinical anastomotic leaks were observed .
outcome	Two patients developed wound infections and one patient died with no autopsy evidence of anastomotic leak .
outcome	Mechanical bowel preparation can safely be omitted prior to right hemicolectomy in patients with colonic cancer .

###6690756
population	A total of 27 men with multiple sclerosis underwent urodynamic evaluation as part of a prospective study of voiding dysfunction .
other	Of 18 patients with detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia 9 suffered serious urologic complications , including repeated episodes of urosepsis , vesicoureteral reflux and urolithiasis .
outcome	None of the 9 patients without dyssynergia suffered any urologic complications .
outcome	Urologic complications were correlated highly to the presence of detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia and the severity of multiple sclerosis but not to duration of multiple sclerosis , age of the patient or type of dyssynergia .
outcome	Although no treatment was without complications it appears that either anticholinergics plus intermittent self-catheterization or condom catheter drainage is superior to an indwelling catheter for initial conservative treatment .
outcome	External sphincterotomy or urinary diversion may be necessary if conservative therapy fails .

###16185161
background	The potential use of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists has been the subject of a number of recent reviews .
background	Despite the promises of better things to come , few new compounds have been identified that circumvent the issues hindering the widespread use of the previously described nicotinic analgesics , mainly a narrow therapeutic window between analgesic efficacy a
background	However , several recent developments have potentially opened new windows of opportunity in the use of nicotinic agents for analgesia .
outcome	A small number of laboratories have reported that peripheral nerve injury alters the pharmacology of nicotinic receptors , resulting in a leftward shift of analgesic potency but not of toxicity .
outcome	Another important development in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain is the reliance of nerve injury-induced behavioural hypersensitivity on both peripheral and central neural immune interactions .
outcome	Finally , the reported neuroprotective effects of nicotine following spinal cord injury may provide an opportunity for the development of selective nicotinic agonists that are capable of attenuating chronic pain .
outcome	The current review will attempt to highlight these recent developments and outline key findings that demonstrate further opportunity for the development of nicotinic agonists as novel analgesics .

###7782272
background	Generalized and specific social phobias are common , chronic , and potentially debilitating conditions .
background	In recent years , there have been major advances in the pharmacotherapy of social phobia ; efficacy has become better established for a diverse group of medications .
background	Controlled studies have shown substantial benefit from monamine oxidase inhibitors , both irreversible ( phenelzine ) and reversible ( brofaromine and moclobemide ) .
background	The serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor antidepressants have shown promise in case reports , uncontrolled studies , and double-blind trials ( fluvoxamine and sertraline ) .
background	The benzodiazepines have been extensively used to treat social phobia , although only recently has a controlled , double-blind study confirmed efficacy ( clonazepam ) .
background	The beta-adrenergic receptor blockers have been widely used on an as needed basis to treat specific social phobia ( i.e. , performance anxiety ) , although their value in generalized social phobia has not been convincing .
background	Finally , pharmacologic approaches to social phobia must take into consideration the common coexistence of other psychiatric conditions .

###10468325
background	For the past decade , the role of noradrenaline in depression has been somewhat neglected in favour of serotonin .
background	This is largely because of the advent of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , which have facilitated clinical and experimental observation of the roles of serotonin .
background	Until now , no such tools have been available to study the noradrenergic system .
background	However , the recent development of reboxetine , the first selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor , has allowed clinical investigation of the role of the noradrenergic system in different aspects of depressive disorders .
outcome	In clinical trials , the use of reboxetine has shown that selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibition is an effective approach to alleviating depression .
outcome	It is more effective than placebo and at least as effective as desipramine , imipramine and fluoxetine in the short term .
outcome	In addition , its efficacy is maintained in patients with severe depression and in those receiving long-term maintenance treatment .
outcome	Reboxetine is very well tolerated , as predicted from its pharmacological profile , having fewer anticholinergic side-effects than imipramine or desipramine .
outcome	Compared with fluoxetine , patients treated with reboxetine experienced less nausea and sexual dysfunction , adverse events that are common among those taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
outcome	Adverse events predicted by the neuroanatomy of the noradrenergic system , such as tremor and cardiovascular effects , occurred less frequently than expected .
outcome	Clinical experience with reboxetine challenges our current knowledge of the role of noradrenaline in depression and questions existing evidence based on studies with noradrenergic tricyclic antidepressants .
outcome	Selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibition , as exemplified by reboxetine , therefore offers a significant improvement in antidepressant pharmacotherapy , and an opportunity to increase our understanding of the role of noradrenaline in depression .

###17297315
background	Osmotic agents are widely used to lower elevated intracranial pressure ( ICP ) .
background	However , little data are available regarding cerebral oxygenation and metabolism in the traumatized brains studied under clinical conditions .
population	The present prospective , open-labeled clinical study was designed to investigate whether administration of mannitol , with the aim of reducing moderate intracranial hypertension , improves cerebral metabolism and oxygenation in patients after severe traumat
population	Multimodal cerebral monitoring ( MCM ) , consisting of intraparenchymal ICP , tissue oxygenation ( ptiO2 ) , and micro dialysis measurements was initiated in six male TBI patients ( mean age 45 years ; Glasgow Coma Scale score < 9 ) .
intervention	A total of 14 mannitol boli ( 20 % , 0.5 g/kg , 20 minutes infusion time ) were administered to treat ICP exceeding 20 mm Hg ( 2.7 kPa ) .
other	Temporal alterations determined by MCM after mannitol infusions were recorded for 120 minutes .
other	Microdialysates were assayed immediately for extracellular glucose , lactate , pyruvate , and glutamate concentrations .
outcome	Elevated ICP was successfully treated in all cases .
outcome	This effect was maximal 40 minutes after start of infusion ( 25 + / - 6 mm Hg [ 3.3 + / - 0.8 kPa ] to 17 + / - 3 mm Hg [ 2.3 + / - 0.4 kPa ] , p < 0.05 ) and lasted up to 100 minutes .
outcome	Cerebral ptiO2 remained unaffected ( 21 + / - 5 mm Hg [ 2.8 + / - 0.7 kPa ] to 23 + / - 6 mm Hg [ 3.1 + / - 0.8 kPa ] , n.s. ) .
outcome	Microdialysate concentrations of all analytes rose unspecifically by 10 % to 40 % from baseline , reaching maximum concentrations 40 to 60 minutes after start of the infusion .
outcome	Mannitol efficiently reduces increased ICP .
outcome	At an ICP of up to 30 mm Hg [ 4 kPa ] it does not affect cerebral oxygenation .
outcome	Unspecific increases of extracellular fluid metabolites can be explained by transient osmotic dehydration .
outcome	Additional mechanisms , such as increased cerebral perfusion and blood volume , might explain an accelerated return to baseline .

###12535390
background	One way of attempting to improve fetal growth has been nutrient supplementation for the mother when fetal growth is impaired .
background	Different nutrients such as carbohydrates and amino acids have been suggested as treatments for impaired fetal growth .
study design	The objective of this review was to assess the effects of nutrient administration for suspected fetal growth impairment on fetal growth and perinatal outcome .
other	We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register .
other	Date of last search 1 November 2002 .
intervention	Acceptably controlled trials of nutrient administration for suspected impaired fetal growth compared to placebo or no treatment .
other	Trial quality was assessed .
outcome	Three studies involving 121 women were included .
outcome	They were small and/or had methodological limitations .
outcome	No difference was detected in the number of small for gestational age infants whose mothers had received nutrients compared to those who did not ( relative risk for calf blood extract 0.54 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.20 to 1.47 ; for glucose 1.11 , 95 % C

###15763777
background	Postmenopausal bleeding ( PMB ) accounts for about 5 % of all office gynaecology visits .
background	The causes of PMB are varied .
background	Many women with endometrial cancer present with this symptom .
background	Although many investigations are described , the most appropriate approach is often unclear .
background	In a patient with no obvious local cause , the emphasis should be on uterine and adnexal evaluation .
background	Based on a literature review , the evidence favours a conservative approach if the endometrial thickness ( ET ) is < 4mm , unless there are risk factors .
outcome	All patients with ET 4 mm should have outpatient endometrial sampling .
outcome	If this is unsuccessful , then outpatient hysteroscopy with directed biopsy or inpatient hysteroscopy is favoured .
outcome	The role of ancillary investigations are described .

###17968166
other	To evaluate comparative outcome between adjuvant postoperative chemoradiotherapy ( postoperative CRT ) and lateral pelvic lymph node dissection ( LPLD ) following total mesorectal excision ( TME ) in rectal cancer patients .
background	Although TME results in lower rate of locoregional recurrence compared with conventional surgery , these 2 treatment modalities following TME have not adequately been appraised until the present trend of preoperative chemoradiotherapy .
population	Between 1995 and 2000 , patients with stage II and III rectal cancer underwent TME plus postoperative CRT ( n = 309 ) or LPLD ( n = 176 ) .
intervention	Patients in the postoperative CRT group received 8 cycles of 5-fluorouracil plus leucovorin and 45 Gy pelvic radiotherapy .
intervention	Patients in the LPLD group underwent lateral lymph node dissection outside the pelvic plexus .
outcome	The 5-year overall and disease-free survival rates were 78.3 % and 67.3 % in the postoperative CRT group , respectively , and 73.9 % and 68.6 % in the LPLD group , respectively , without significant differences between these groups .
outcome	Patients in the LPLD group with stage III lower rectal cancer had a locoregional recurrence rate 2.2-fold greater than those in the postoperative CRT group ( 16.7 % vs. 7.5 % , P = 0.044 ) .
outcome	Multivariate analysis showed that APR and advanced T-category ( T4 ) were significantly associated with locoregional recurrence , whereas lymph node metastases , high preoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen , and APR were significantly associated with shor
outcome	Postoperative-CRT and LPLD following TME resulted in comparable survival rates , but the locoregional recurrence rate was higher in the LPLD group .
outcome	These findings suggest that initial surgery is appropriate for rectal cancer patients who are candidates for low anterior resection without extensive local disease ( T1-T3 ) , regardless of lymph node status .

###16643969
background	A number of studies have now documented that traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is associated with deficits in the recognition of basic emotions , the capacity to infer mental states of others ( theory of mind ) , as well as executive functioning .
background	However , no study to date has investigated the relationship between these three constructs in the context of TBI .
population	In the current study TBI participants ( N = 16 ) were compared with demographically matched healthy controls ( N = 17 ) .
outcome	It was found that TBI participants ' recognition of basic emotions , as well as their capacity for mental state attribution , was significantly reduced relative to controls .
outcome	Performance on both of these measures was strongly correlated in the healthy control , but not in the TBI sample .
outcome	In contrast , in the TBI ( but not the control ) sample , theory of mind was substantially correlated with performance on phonemic fluency , a measure of executive functioning considered to impose particular demands upon cognitive flexibility and self-regulati
outcome	These results are consistent with other evidence indicating that deficits in some aspects of executive functioning may at least partially underlie deficits in social cognition following TBI , and thus help explain the prevalence of social dysfunction in TB

###15307975
background	Endometriosis is a common clinical disorder in women and usually presents with pelvic pain , infertility , or adnexal masses secondary to intracystic hemorrhage with the formation of an endometrioma .
background	Endometriosis shares certain characteristics with malignant neoplasms , and malignant ovarian tumours have been documented in women with endometriosis .
background	Endometriosis-associated ovarian cancer ( EAOC ) usually occurs in younger women , has favourable outcomes , and appears as either a low-grade tumour of endometrioid cell type or as a clear cell tumour .
background	As it has been suggested that the pathologic features of `` atypical endometriosis '' may constitute a precancerous state , women with atypical endometriosis may be at an increased risk of developing EAOC .
background	There are no prospective randomized trials assessing treatment regimens for EAOC .
background	Most women receive treatment similar to other epithelial ovarian cancers .
background	However , women with EAOC represent a subgroup of patients that may require different therapeutic options .

###10796521
background	Audit and feedback has been identified as having the potential to change the practice of health care professionals .
other	To assess the effects of audit and feedback compared with other interventions in changing health professional practice and to assess whether the effectiveness of audit and feedback can be improved by modifying how it is done .
other	We searched MEDLINE up to June 1997 , the Research and Development Resource Base in Continuing Medical Education , and reference lists of related systematic reviews and articles .
intervention	Randomised trials of audit and feedback ( defined as any summary of clinical performance of health care over a specified period of time ) compared with other interventions .
population	The participants were health care providers responsible for patient care .
other	Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed study quality .
other	Twelve studies were included involving more than 2194 physicians .
outcome	Seven trials with direct comparisons were included .
outcome	The targeted behaviours were the management of low haemoglobin , the delivery of preventive care services ( two studies ) , the management of high cholesterol , the performance of cervical smears , and the ordering of diagnostic tests ( two studies ) .
outcome	From the results of four trials , there is little evidence of a measurable effect of adding a complementary intervention such as a local consensus process to audit and feedback compared to audit and feedback alone .
outcome	Two of three trials that compared audit and feedback to reminders reported that reminders were more effective in improving the delivery of some preventive services .
outcome	It is not possible to recommend a complementary intervention to enhance the effectiveness of audit and feedback .
outcome	Reminders might be more effective than audit and feedback to improve the delivery of some preventive services but the results are not striking .
outcome	Few trials have investigated the effect of varying different characteristics of the audit and feedback process .
outcome	Consideration should be given to testing the effects of modifying important characteristics such as the content , source , timing , recipient and format .

###12971714
background	To describe pain and associated variables in a prevalence group of persons with a sustained spinal cord injury ( SCI ) in the Swedish capital and its surroundings .
other	Spinalis SCI Unit ( outpatient clinic ) , Stockholm , Sweden .
other	Assessment over a 12-month period in a yearly health control .
population	Four hundred and fifty-six SCI patients .
outcome	Two hundred and ninety-one out of 456 SCI patients ( 63.7 % ) suffered from pain , and in 45.7 % of these it was classified as being neurogenic .
outcome	Aching pain was the most used descriptor ( 38.5 % ) .
outcome	The onset of pain was commonly within three months ( 73.5 % ) .
outcome	In 70.4 % of patients pain occurred below the level of the lesion .
outcome	Most patients identified pain as coming from one ( 55.0 % ) or two ( 28.2 % ) body regions .
outcome	Rating of the general pain intensity on a visual analogue scale ( VAS ) was 46 out of 100 and rating of the worst pain intensity was 78 out of 100 .
outcome	Ninety-four out of 276 patients ( 32.3 % ) considered that their quality of life was significantly affected by pain .
outcome	Pain was most common in patients with incomplete lesions ( ASIA impairment grade D ) and there was a correlation between pain and higher mean age at injury and between pain and female gender .

###8170754
background	Substantial research shows less favorable body-image experiences among overweight and obese persons relative to persons of average weight .
population	The purpose of this investigation of body image was to compare 102 enrollees in a commercial , very-low-calorie diet program to 258 age - and weight-matched control subjects .
outcome	Whereas enrollees were more strongly invested in their physical appearance , they held a more disparaging view of their looks .
outcome	Relative to the control group , enrollees also felt less healthy , yet their evaluation of and investment in their physical fitness were more positive .
outcome	Obese persons constitute a heterogeneous population , and those who seek rapid and extensive weight loss in commercial programs may have special body-image concerns and needs .

###11148409
background	A 47-year-old woman presented with a rare case of epidural hematoma of the clivus .
background	The patient had bilateral occipital condyle fractures ( a comminuted fracture on the right side , an avulsion fracture on left side and a lower clivus fracture ) .
background	On admission the patient was tetraparetic with left abducens palsy .
background	Preoperative imaging showed no atlanto-axial or occipito-atlantal dislocation .
other	The patient was operated with a posterior approach .
intervention	An occipital craniectomy with C1 laminectomy was achieved without atlanto-occipital fusion .
outcome	Two years after the trauma , the patient had mild left hemiparesis but was able to walk normally .
outcome	Head motion was normal , but just mildly decreased by pain in flexion and extension .
outcome	Imaging control did not show any occipito-atlantal instability .
outcome	We describe the imaging features allowing precise diagnosis and discuss the management of a rare entity : bilateral occipital condyle fractures and epidural hematoma of the clivus .

###2380621
population	Twenty-three consecutive patients presenting for in vitro fertilization were evaluated with transvaginal sonography on cycle day 3 , prior to initiating ovarian hyperstimulation .
population	Three of these patients were noted to have large ovarian cysts .
intervention	All three underwent transvaginal aspiration of the cysts , followed immediately by initiation of ovarian hyperstimulation .
outcome	Following oocyte retrieval , in vitro fertilization , and embryo transfer , all three women achieved pregnancy .
outcome	We conclude that cyst aspiration is not contraindicated when an ovarian cyst is encountered in the follicular phase of an in vitro fertilization cycle .

###8678767
background	To compare the accuracy of whole-body position emission tomography ( PET ) using [ 18F ] fluorodeoxyglucose ( FDG ) with conventional radiological imaging techniques in identifying operable colorectal cancer metastases to the liver .
study design	A double-blind comparative study of FDG-PET as the criterion standard vs conventional radiological imaging methods as the criterion standard , in staging of recurrent colorectal cancer .
other	Institutional practice in a tertiary referral center .
population	Thirty-four consecutive patients with suspected colorectal cancer metastases recruited for the study between May 1993 and October 1994 .
intervention	Conventional radiological methods of cancer staging included abdominal computed tomography ( CT ) ( n = 34 ) , chest x-rays ( n = 15 ) , and chest CT ( n = 19 ) to evaluate extrahepatic disease .
other	Twenty-seven patients were subsequently considered to have apparently isolated cancer metastases to the liver .
intervention	Anatomical resectability was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging ( n = 24 ) or CT angiography ( n = 3 ) in all study patients .
intervention	The FDG-PET studies ( n = 34 ) were performed within 8 weeks of conventional radiological imaging .
other	Malignancy of suspected lesions detected by means of FDG-PET and conventional radiological imaging was confirmed by histopathologic examination of resected specimens and percutaneous biopsy specimens and by serial CT scans demonstrating progression of disease .
outcome	Unsuspected extrahepatic malignant disease that was missed by conventional radiological imaging was detected by FDG-PET in 11 patients ( 32 % ) .
outcome	The PET-detected extrahepatic malignant disease included retroperitoneal nodal metastases ( n = 6 ) , pulmonary metastases ( n = 3 ) , and locoregional cancer recurrences ( n = 2 ) .
outcome	The additional information afforded by PET consequently had an influence on the clinical management in 10 patients ( 29 % ) .
outcome	The FDG-PET method enabled selection of patients with apparently curable colorectal cancer metastases to the liver for hepatic resection .

###15997638
background	BioMarine 570 is well tolerated agent supporting the innate immunity .
background	It was isolated from Greenland shark liver .
other	To evaluate the effect of BioMarine .
population	The 10 healthy , randomly chosen volunteers are included to the protocol .
intervention	Volunteers are given 9 capsules of BioMarine a day for 30 days .
other	The clinical and laboratory parameters were analyzed before and after the treatment .
other	The following innate immunity parameters were analyzed C1q , C3 C4 and CH50 of complement level , CD4/CD8 ratio , Th1/Th2 cytokine polarization , reactive oxygen intermediates production ( ROI ) .
outcome	Clinically no side effects were noted .
outcome	BioMarine intake has increased the C1q level , increase CD4/CD8 ratio from 1.3 to 1.8 and polarized Th1/Th2 lymphocyte cytokine secretion towards Th1 .
outcome	The modulation of ROI production by neutrophils was also noted .
outcome	BioMarine has no affect on CD4 + CD25 + regulatory lymphocytes .
outcome	Concluding BioMarine is save , effective and innate immunity supporting agent , can be effectively applied in people with disturbed immune system as harmless and effective agent normalizing the immune imbalance .

###6401335
background	Health care for the elderly in the United States remains fragmentary and noncomprehensive despite concern for the needs of an expanding elderly population and a new emphasis on geriatrics .
background	Model health care programs for the elderly have been few and not generally applicable to central city populations .
background	A model health care program has been designed to offer a continuum of comprehensive , multidisciplinary health care to Milwaukee elderly .
background	An acute care unit for the elderly , rehabilitation-oriented nursing home , outpatient clinic , home care service , outreach clinics , rehabilitation day hospital , Alzheimer 's Disease Day Care program , and acute geriatric psychiatric unit have been developed a
background	The program serves chiefly the frail elderly , who are demonstrated to be markedly impaired physically , mentally , and socially , requiring the services of multiple professionals to enable the patients to achieve maximum independence .
background	Alternatives to institutionalization are emphasized , and geriatric education and research programs are part of the model program .

###15944171
background	To report preliminary efficacy data from a Web-based family problem-solving intervention to improve parent and child adaptation .
population	Eight parents and six children with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) who were injured more than 15 months earlier ( M = 16 months ) participated in the intervention .
intervention	Families were given computers , Web cameras , and high-speed Internet access .
intervention	Weekly videoconferences with the therapist were conducted after they completed self-guided Web exercises on problem-solving , communication , and antecedent behavior management strategies .
outcome	Paired t tests comparing pre - and post-intervention scores revealed significant improvements in injury-related burden , parental psychiatric symptoms , depression , and parenting stress .
outcome	There were also significant reductions in antisocial behaviors in the injured child , but not in self-reported depressive symptoms .
outcome	These findings suggest that a computer-based intervention may successfully be used to improve both parent and child outcomes following TBI in children .

###2151984
population	Conservative management of 54 patients with thoracolumbar ( T12 and/or L1 ) burst fractures was investigated .
other	The fractures were subdivided according to the Denis classification and a modification was suggested .
outcome	Most type A and B fractures showed good results regarding reduction and neurological improvement .
outcome	However , severe type B ( with anterior column compression and spinal canal narrowing exceeding 50 % ) , D , and E fractures were to a large extent complicated by intractable low back pain , neurological involvement , and signs of instability .
outcome	This study suggests predictors for complications in patients with burst fractures in the thoracolumbar junction .
outcome	These are ( a ) compression rate of the anterior column exceeding 50 % , ( b ) narrowing of the spinal canal exceeding 50 % , ( c ) signs of rotational malalignment in fracture level , and ( d ) level of the injury ( L1 fractures ) .

###16037658
background	Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease ( CJD ) is a rare pathology ( about 1 case per million ) but it has a great importance for Public Health ; the Italian National CJD register has been established in the Istituto Superiore di Sanita ( ISS ) since 1993 , and epidemiologica
background	This paper reports a mortality study carried out comparing and integrating data from the two available sources : the National CJD Register and the Italian Data Base on Mortality , processed by the ISS Statistics Unit , on the data collected by the Italian Ce
outcome	The study allowed to estimate : the underreporting of CJD mortality to both sources , the misclassification of ISTAT data and the integrated mortality rates from CJD in Italy : 1.58 per million persons aged 25 or more , average rate during the period 1993-199

###9392045
population	The outcome in terms of health-related quality of life ( HRQL ) in pediatric spinal cord injury ( SCI ) was studied in 36 adults who had sustained an SCI in childhood .
other	The patients were interviewed and clinically examined .
intervention	HRQL was assessed with the 15D , a generic fifteen-dimensional self-administered HRQL instrument .
background	The 15 multiple-level dimensions are moving , seeing , hearing , breathing , sleeping , eating , communicating , urinary continence , working , social participation , mental functioning , pain , depression , distress and perceived health .
background	The respondents choose , for each dimension , the level that best describe their health status .
background	In the 15D valuation system the respondents first assign a relative importance weight to each dimension and then a relative value to the levels on each dimension .
background	To derive the 15D HRQL score on a 0-1 scale the level values and importance weights are multiplied and combined with the levels chosen .
outcome	The average HRQL score of this SCI group was significantly lower than that measured in the population sample .
outcome	The average importance weights assigned by the SCI group differed significantly ( P < 0.05 ) from those assigned by the general population on several dimensions .
outcome	The weights assigned by the SCI group were higher for the dimensions of mental functioning , communicating , social participation and seeing and lower for moving , working , sleeping and eating .
outcome	These differences in valuing the dimensions of HRQL can influence behaviour and should therefore be taken into consideration in rehabilitation .

###15093636
background	To compare the safety and efficacy of the Surodex dexamethasone anterior segment drug delivery system ( Oculex Pharmaceuticals , Inc. ) and dexamethasone 0.1 % eyedrops ( Maxidex ) in patients with inflammation after cataract surgery .
other	Cataract Service , Department of Ophthalmology , Lothian University Hospitals , Edinburgh , United Kingdom .
population	This comparative single-masked parallel-group study comprised 1 eye of 19 patients having phacoemulsification cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation .
intervention	The Surodex group had the dexamethasone drug delivery system inserted into the anterior chamber ( AC ) angle during surgery and was treated with saline eyedrops ( Isopto Plain ) for 4 weeks .
other	The control group had no drug delivery system or a placebo inserted at surgery and were treated with dexamethasone 0.1 % eyedrops for 4 weeks .
other	A Kowa FM-500 laser flare meter was used to objectively measure AC flare , the main outcome measure .
other	Slitlamp biomicroscopy to grade AC flare and cells , intraocular pressure measurement , and corneal endothelial specular microscopy , performed up to 60 days after surgery , were the secondary outcome measures .
other	The Surodex group had safety follow-ups after completion of the initial study period .
outcome	Both groups had a steady increase in laser flare meter readings postoperatively .
outcome	The readings peaked at 3 days in the control group and at 7 days in the Surodex group .
outcome	This was followed by a gradual decline toward baseline values up to 28 days , after which the values remained at a similar level to 60 days in both groups .
outcome	There were no significant differences in flare meter readings between the groups throughout the study .
outcome	There were also no significant between-group differences in subjective assessment of intraocular inflammation and in impact on corneal endothelial cell count ( P = .67 ) .
outcome	Surodex remnants persisted up to a mean of 22.0 months + / - 2.5 ( SD ) postoperatively in 6 eyes ( 54 % ) .
outcome	Neither group had a severe adverse event .
outcome	Surodex appeared to be as effective as dexamethasone 0.1 % eyedrops in controlling intraocular inflammation after cataract surgery by phacoemulsification , and both methods had a similar safety profile .

###18243784
background	Breastfeeding has a major impact on HCMV epidemiology .
background	The incidence of postnatal HCMV reactivation during lactation equals the maternal seroprevalence .
background	Infectious virus , viral DNA and RNA can be isolated easily from cell and fat-free milk whey .
background	Early onset of viral DNAlactia and virolactia as well as high viral load in milk whey are maternal risk factors for virus transmission .
background	The dynamics of HCMV reactivation can be described by unimodal kinetics with interindividual variation .
background	Virus reactivation during lactation is a self-limiting local process in the absence of systemic HCMV infection .
background	Preterm infants below 1000g birthweight and a gestational age below 30 weeks may be at high risk of acquiring a symptomatic HCMV infection .
background	Several recent studies described low transmission rates and mostly asymptomatically infected neonates using frozen milk .
outcome	Despite different freeze-storing procedures , HCMV transmissions occurred , and severe HCMV infections were observed .
outcome	Few data exist on the long-term outcome of postnatally acquired HCMV infection via breast milk .
outcome	To substantiate the international debate on the use of native or inactivated milk for feeding of preterm infants , additional data are necessary for better identification of mother-infant-pairs at risk for viral transmission and symptomatic infection early

###19556132
background	We aimed to evaluate the safety and therapeutic efficacy of percutaneous transpedicular vertebroplasty ( PVP ) using polymethyl methacrylate ( PMMA ) in patients with symptomatic metastatic spine lesions .
population	We included 31 patients in this retrospective study who were treated with PMMA from 2003 to 2005 for intractable pain due to metastatic spine lesions .
other	The types of cancer ( and numbers of patients ) included lung cancer ( 9 ) , breast cancer ( 7 ) , gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract cancers ( 5 ) , hepatobiliary malignancies ( 3 ) , and other types of cancer ( 7 ) .
intervention	All patients received vertebroplasty , resulting in 41 treatments ( 16 in thoracic , 25 in lumbar spine ) .
other	Preoperative and postoperative visual analog scale ( VAS ) scores for pain were measured in all patients .
intervention	Image studies including contrast-enhanced MRI were performed in all patients .
outcome	Results showed characteristic metastatic lesions .
other	Suspicious lesions were further confirmed as malignant by a bone scan , a positron emission tomography ( PET ) scan , and pathological exam .
outcome	Vertebroplasty resulted in complete or partial pain relief in 29 patients ( 95 % ) , and provided no pain relief in 2 patients ( 5 % ) .
outcome	The mean preoperative VAS score of 8.9 ( + / -0.93 ) was higher than the mean postoperative VAS score ( 2.6 + / -1.71 ) .
other	Metastatic spine lesions were most common in lung and breast cancer patients and these lesions were located more often on segments T12 to L2 ( 53.6 % ) .
outcome	Patients with malignancy of hepatobiliary origin did not show improvement in pain scores as dramatically as patients with other types of malignancies , although only a few cases were included in this study .
outcome	No patients experienced worsening of symptoms or suffered from vertebroplasty complications .
outcome	We conclude that vertebroplasty is a safe , effective , and simple treatment for the management of intractable spinal pain due to metastases .

###12688385
background	It is well established that cholecystokinin ( CCK ) reduces the antinociceptive effect of opioids .
background	The level of CCK and CCK receptors , as well as CKK release , exhibits considerable plasticity after nerve injury and inflammation , conditions known to be associated with chronic pain .
background	Such altered CCK release coupled in some situation with changes in CCK receptor levels may underlie the clinical phenomenon of varying opioid sensitivity in different clinical pain conditions .
background	In particular , neuropathic pain after injury to the peripheral and central nervous system does not respond well to opioids , which is likely to be caused by increased activity in the endogenous CCK system .
background	CCK receptor antagonists may thus be useful as analgesics in combination with opioids to treat neuropathic pain .

###1669350
background	The etiologic bases of CFS are undetermined at the present time .
background	It is very important to distinguish the patients with CFS as defined by the Centers for Disease Control ( CDC ) case definition of Holmes et al. from patients with physical and laboratory findings suggesting dual infections and/or underlying immunodeficienc
background	Particularly fruitful might be a longitudinal immunovirologic study of patients who exhibit CFS following a well-documented viral infection .

###2699043
background	Public interest in the health benefits of seafood lipids , or of fish oils , is a most unusual phenomenon because for once the recommendations of health authorities to `` eat more fish '' are in accord with newer and popular attitudes .
background	Media exploitation of the more sensational health aspects is also generally in favor of more consumption of seafood .
background	The public is however still confused by the multitude of species of fish and shellfish available , and in a quandary over whether fatty fish are risky in terms of calories or cholesterol , or of more benefit than lean fish in terms of omega-3 fatty acids .
background	Most direct questions on how much omega-3 fatty acids are useful in the diet of an average individual may never be answerable until long term studies with humans are carried out .
background	It does appear that marine fish can be broken down into four convenient categories : lean ( including shellfish ) , low fat , medium fat and high fat ; and in this review it is suggested that these could contribute , per 100 grams , respectively about 250 , 750 , 1
background	This intake can compare favorably with the alternative of commonly available fish oil capsules .
outcome	Moreover this survey shows that at present the composite of total omega-3 fatty acids in fish and shellfish may contain roughly equal proportions of the functionally effective eicosapentaenoic acid , and of docosahexaenoic acid with its as yet unknown long

###15574127
background	ACE ( angiotensin-converting enzyme ) inhibitors and PDE5 ( phosphodiesterase type 5 ) inhibitors have each been reported to improve endothelial function in cardiovascular disease patients , but the comparative and combined effects of these two classes have no
other	We sought to characterize the acute effects of ramipril alone , sildenafil alone , or their combination on endothelial function in patients with CHF ( chronic heart failure ) .
population	CHF subjects ( n = 64 ) were randomized to receive placebo , 10 mg of ramipril alone , 50 mg of sildenafil alone or a combination of ramipril and sildenafil in a double-blind manner .
other	FMD ( flow-mediated dilation ) of the brachial artery was determined by high-resolution ultrasound imaging before and at 1 , 2 and 4 h after administration of the study drug .
outcome	Ramipril alone increased FMD at 4 h compared with placebo ( +2.3 + / -1.3 % , P = 0.02 ) .
outcome	Sildenafil alone increased FMD at 1 , 2 and 4 h compared with placebo ( +3.9 + / -1.4 , +4.6 + / -1.8 and +3.7 + / -1.3 % respectively , all P < 0.02 ) .
outcome	Sildenafil in combination with ramipril increased FMD at 1 , 2 and 4 h when compared with placebo ( +3.5 + / -1.5 , +4.5 + / -1.8 and +4.8 + / -1.3 % respectively , all P < 0.03 ) .
outcome	Ramipril and sildenafil both acutely improved FMD in patients with CHF , with additive effects evident at 4 h during combination therapy .
outcome	Therefore further work to characterize chronic effects of combined ACE and PDE5 inhibition on endothelial function are warranted .

###15953751
study design	This preliminary cross-sectional study was undertaken to determine if there were measurable relationships between posture , back muscle endurance and low back pain ( LBP ) in industrial workers with a reported history of flexion strain injury and flexion pai
background	Clinical reports state that subjects with flexion pain disorders of the lumbar spine commonly adopt passive flexed postures such as slump sitting and present with associated dysfunction of the spinal postural stabilising musculature .
other	However , to date there is little empirical evidence to support that patients with back pain , posture their spines differently than pain-free subjects .
population	Subjects included 21 healthy industrial workers and 24 industrial workers with flexion-provoked LBP .
other	Lifestyle information , lumbo-pelvic posture in sitting , standing and lifting , and back muscle endurance were measured .
outcome	LBP subjects had significantly reduced back muscle endurance ( P < 0.01 ) .
outcome	LBP subjects sat with less hip flexion , ( P = 0.05 ) , suggesting increased posterior pelvic tilt in sitting .
outcome	LBP subjects postured their spines significantly closer to their end of range lumbar flexion in ` usual ' sitting than the healthy controls ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Correlations between increased time spent sitting , physical inactivity and poorer back muscle endurance were also identified .
outcome	There were no significant differences found between the groups for the standing and lifting posture measures .
outcome	These preliminary results support that a relationship may exist between flexed spinal postures , reduced back muscle endurance , physical inactivity and LBP in subjects with a history of flexion injury and pain .

###1991293
population	One hundred thirty consecutive patients with metastatic spinal cord compression ( MSCC ) were entered in a therapeutic protocol in which radiation therapy ( RT ) played the main role .
background	When MSCC is diagnosed by clinical-radiologic methods such as myelography with or without computed tomography ( CT ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , steroids are given and RT treatment started within 24 hours .
background	When diagnostic doubts exist or stabilization is necessary , surgery precedes RT. .
background	Chemohormonal potentially responsive tumors are also treated with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy .
intervention	Twelve patients ( 9.2 % ) underwent surgery plus RT , and 118 ( 90.8 % ) received RT alone .
outcome	Thirteen ( 11 % ) early death patients were not evaluable .
other	The 105 evaluable cases that received RT alone were analyzed .
other	Median follow-up was 15 months ( range , 4 to 38 months ) .
outcome	Response among patients with back pain was 80 % .
outcome	In cases with motor dysfunction , 48.6 % improved , and in 33 of 105 patients ( 31.4 % ) without motor disability there was no deterioration .
outcome	Forty percent of patients with autonomic dysfunction responded to RT. .
outcome	Median survival time was 7 months with a 36 % probability of survival for 1 year .
outcome	The median duration of improvement was 8 months .
outcome	The most important prognostic factor was early diagnosis .
outcome	Radiosensitivity of tumor was only important in paraparetic patients in predicting response to RT. .
outcome	Complete myelographic block significantly diminished response to RT. .
outcome	Vertebral collapse did not influence response or survival .

###12384737
background	Microdiscectomy represents the gold standard in disc surgery on the lumbar spine .
background	The remaining defect in the intervertebral disc space can be filled with a newly developed nucleus prosthesis presented in this paper .
background	This prosthesis consists of polycarbonate urethane ( Sulene PCU ) , and takes the form of a memory coiling spiral .
background	It can be easily implanted using the standard microdiscectomy approach with no further tissue damage .
background	Biomechanical tests have shown that anatomical distances can be restored by the spiral for both the facet joints and the endplates .
outcome	Endplate deformations are not statistically different when compared to intact conditions .
background	Inclusion and exclusion criteria of an in vivo pilot study are presented .
background	The paper describes the insertion setup for the spiral and the technique of implantation .
population	Five patients have been supplied with the implant to date .
background	The first results on postoperative magnetic resonance images are presented .

###17326599
background	Fentanyl is commonly used systemically or neuraxially for the management of chronic pain .
background	It can be administered intrathecally via implanted pump , but it is generally considered only after trials of intrathecal ( IT ) morphine and hydromorphone have proven ineffective .
other	Published experience with IT fentanyl is limited , and long-term therapy at relatively high doses has not been described previously .
population	We describe four patients who were treated with IT fentanyl after other analgesic approaches had failed and who gradually underwent dose escalation to levels as high as 20 times those previously reported .
outcome	Safety and tolerability were maintained during dose titration .
outcome	Our experience highlights an expanding scope of practice in the use of IT opioids in general and fentanyl specifically and suggests that high-dose fentanyl can be used safely in highly selected patients .

###16770167
background	Resection of the small bowel can lead to malabsorption of fluid , electrolytes , minerals , and other essential nutrients , resulting in malnutrition and dehydration .
background	Individualized and tailored nutritional management for patients with short bowel syndrome ( SBS ) helps to optimize intestinal absorption , leading to nutritional independence such that a patient can resume as normal a lifestyle as possible .
background	Parenteral nutrition ( PN ) , used to supply the required nutrients following resection , is associated with a number of complications affecting patient morbidity and mortality .
other	Attempts should be made to wean patients from PN to an oral diet as soon as possible .
outcome	Dietary management is complex and needs to be individualized for each patient on the basis of his or her specific gastrointestinal anatomy , underlying disease , and lifestyle .
outcome	In addition to nutrient intake , management of SBS also requires appropriate oral rehydration , vitamin and mineral supplementation , and pharmacotherapy .
outcome	Several medications provide a useful adjunctive function to dietary intervention , including antidiarrheal agents , H2 antagonists and proton pump inhibitors , pancreatic enzymes , somatostatin analogs , antimicrobials , and trophic factors .

###15597029
other	To examine the relation between sleep disturbance and neurocognitive ability among persons with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
background	Correlational research evaluating demographic and neuropsychological predictors of sleep disturbance using multiple regression analysis and analysis of variance .
population	Eighty-seven patients with mild to severe TBI admitted to a comprehensive outpatient neurorehabilitation program .
other	Sleep disturbance assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index .
outcome	Hierarchical regression analysis revealed that performance on selected measures of cognitive functioning significantly improved prediction of sleep disturbance , accounting for 14 % of variance beyond that accounted for by injury severity and gender .
outcome	The total model accounted for 31 % of the variance in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index scores .
outcome	Patients with mild TBI reported more sleep disturbance ( P < .01 ) than did patients with severe TBI .
outcome	Sleep disturbance among patients with TBI may be associated with a particular constellation of neuropsychological abilities .
outcome	These issues are discussed in relation to prior findings that indicate the involvement of additional neuropsychiatric factors associated with sleep disturbance in mild TBI .

###15922830
background	Is sense-antisense ( SA ) pairing of transcripts a common mode of gene regulation in the human genome ?
background	Although > 20 % of human genes might form SA pairs , the extent to which they are involved in antisense regulation is unknown .
background	Simultaneous expression of paired sense and antisense genes is an essential step and an important indicator of antisense regulation .
outcome	In this article , we demonstrate that human SA pairs tend to be co-expressed and/or inversely expressed more frequently than expected by chance .
outcome	Moreover , co-expressed and inversely expressed SA pairs exhibit a striking pattern of evolutionary conservation .
outcome	These findings suggest that antisense regulation is a common and important mechanism of gene regulation in the human genome .

###3394706
background	Animal laboratory studies have demonstrated that 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( TCDD ) has fetotoxic and teratogenic effects at low doses .
background	TCDD contamination of soil in nine residential areas of eastern Missouri began in 1971 when several horse arenas and dirt roads were sprayed for dust control with a mixture that contained waste oil and dioxin .
background	The authors conducted an epidemiologic investigation to determine if adverse human reproductive outcomes are associated with exposure to soil contaminated with dioxin .
population	The authors attempted to identify all births during the period of January 1 , 1972 through December 31 , 1982 that had potential exposure to dioxin , based on proximity of the maternal address to a location of known TCDD contamination .
other	This group totaled 410 births .
population	A matched set of 820 unexposed births was selected as a comparison group after being matched for maternal age and race , year of birth , hospital of birth , and plurality .
outcome	The exposed group had increased risk ratios for infant , fetal , and perinatal death ; low birth weight ; and several subcategories of birth defects .
outcome	None of these increased risk ratios for the exposed group were statistically significant .
outcome	These results do not provide evidence that TCDD exposure has a substantial impact on the reproductive outcomes investigated .
outcome	If TCDD does produce effects on reproductive health , a larger study and/or better measures of exposure may be needed to discover them .

###8006372
background	To advance our understanding of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and medication effects we draw upon the evidence for ( 1 ) a neurotransmitter imbalance between norepinephrine and dopamine in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and ( 2 ) an asymm
outcome	It appears that attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder may involve a bihemispheric dysfunction characterized by reduced dopaminergic and excessive noradrenergic functioning .
outcome	In turn , favorable medication effects may be mediated by a restoration in neurotransmitter balance and by increased control over the allocation of attentional resources between hemispheres .

###17582499
background	Fish contain essential long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) , particularly docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , an omega-3 ( or n-3 ) PUFA , but are also the main source of exposure to methylmercury ( MeHg ) , a potent developmental neurotoxicant .
background	Since n-3 PUFAs support neural development and function , benefits deriving from a diet rich in n-3s have been hypothesized to protect against deleterious effects of gestational MeHg exposure .
population	To determine whether protection occurs at the behavioral level , female Long-Evans rats were exposed , in utero , to 0 , 0.5 , or 5ppm of Hg as MeHg via drinking water , approximating exposures of 0 , 40 , and 400 microgHg/kg/day and producing 0 , 0.29 , and 5.50 pp
intervention	They also received pre - and postnatal exposure to one of two diets , both based on the AIN-93 semipurified formulation .
other	A `` fish-oil '' diet was high in , and a `` coconut-oil '' diet was devoid of , DHA .
other	Diets were approximately equal in alpha-linolenic acid and n-6 PUFAs .
other	As adults , the rats were first assessed with a spatial discrimination reversal ( SDR ) procedure and later with a visual ( nonspatial ) discrimination reversal ( VDR ) procedure .
outcome	MeHg increased the number of errors to criterion for both SDR and VDR during the first reversal , but effects were smaller or non-existent on the original discrimination and on later reversals .
outcome	No such MeHg-related deficits were seen when the rats were retested on SDR after 2 years of age .
outcome	These results are consistent with previous reports and hypotheses that gestational MeHg exposure produces perseverative responding .
outcome	No interactions between diet and MeHg were found , suggesting that n-3 PUFAs do not guard against these behavioral effects .
outcome	Brain Hg concentrations did not differ between the diets , either .
outcome	In geriatric rats , failures to respond were less common and response latencies were shorter for rats fed the fish-oil diet , suggesting that exposure to a diet rich in n-3s may lessen the impact of age-related declines in response initiation .

###16421065
background	Age is assumed to be a negative prognostic factor in recovery from moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
background	Little is known on cognitive performance after mild TBI in relation to age in the sub-acute stage after injury .
population	Ninety-nine mild TBI subjects ( age 15-75 ) were compared with 91 healthy control subjects ( age 14-74 ) in a case-control design .
other	Patients were matched on age , sex and level of education , with control subjects .
other	Mean interval between injury and cognitive assessment was 13 days .
other	Neurocognitive test battery contained tests of verbal memory , selective attention , general speed of information processing and verbal fluency .
outcome	An overall effect was found of a single mild TBI on neurocognitive performance in the sub-acute stage after injury .
outcome	Age did not add significantly to the effect of mild TBI on cognitive functioning .
outcome	Patients suffering from mild TBI are characterized by subtle neurocognitive deficits in the weeks directly following the trauma .
outcome	The notion that elderly subjects have a worse outcome in the sub-acute period after mild TBI is at least not in line with the results of this study .

###14505102
background	Intracranial pressure monitoring is recommended for the management of severe head injury and is increasingly used during intensive care for other pathologies , such as subarachnoid hemorrhage .
background	However , it is still not uniformly applied in different centers .
background	The objectives of this paper are to summarize the frequency and the modalities of intracranial pressure ( ICP ) monitoring in different centers in Italy ; to describe its use in traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) and in subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) ; and to identi
other	The medical directors of either the neurosurgical department or the intensive care unit , or both , of every Italian neurosurgical center were personally interviewed .
other	They answered specific questions about TBI and SAH patients admitted , and ICP monitoring used , in their units .
other	Data were cleared of any obvious inconsistencies and entered in a database for analysis .
other	All analyses were based simply on the data declared .
population	The clinical information was obtained from 9137 TBI cases , of whom 4240 severe , and 3151 SAH patients .
outcome	Among the 106 participating centers , 15 did not use ICP monitoring at all .
outcome	The remaining 91 had used 3293 ICP devices during the year 2001 ; 146 were used in tumor cases , 2009 in TBI , and 1138 in SAH .
outcome	Twenty-two percent of TBI cases admitted to centers with ICP equipment were monitored .
outcome	Restricting this analysis to severe cases , 47 % of TBI with a GCS < 8 had ICP .
outcome	On average , 36 % of SAH underwent ICP monitoring .
outcome	The proportions of head injury and SAH cases who underwent ICP monitoring varied widely in the different centers .
outcome	Dividing the country into three main areas ( north , center and south ) , there were considerable differences both in the rate of admissions per million inhabitants and in the frequency of ICP monitoring .
outcome	ICP monitoring in Italy is used in most , but not all , centers .
outcome	ICP is measured fairly extensively in head injury cases , but a significant proportion of SAH patients is monitored as well .
outcome	There are substantial differences in the frequency of ICP monitoring in different parts of the country .
outcome	The use of ICP for both these indications , and the rates of admission to specialized centers , could be improved .

###1835430
population	By use of pentobarbital sodium to produce experimental congestive heart failure ( CHF ) in 40 rabbits , they were treated with xin-fu-ning IV ( XFN IV ) , the plasma atrial natriuretic factor ( ANF ) levels and atrial tissue ANF levels of rabbits were measured .
outcome	The results showed that XFN IV had elevated ANF levels of the rabbits with CHF .
outcome	It showed that XFN IV could improve endocrine function of heart , and it also showed good curative effect on CHF .

###15086865
background	A majority of psychiatric medications are known to generate weight gain and ultimately obesity in some patients .
background	There is much speculation about the prevalence of weight gain and the degree of weight gain during acute and longitudinal treatment with these agents .
background	There is newer literature looking at the aetiology of this weight gain and the potential treatments being used to alleviate this side-effect .
background	We found solid evidence that weight gain is often associated with the mood stabilizers , and antipsychotics and antidepressants .
background	Only few weight neutral or weight loss producing psychotropics are available , and weight gain , outside of an immediate side-effect , may generate secondary side-effects and medical comorbidity .
background	Given the likelihood of inducing weight gain with psychotropic medications and the longitudinal impact on physical health , a thorough literatu

###10879772
background	Spinal hydatid disease is a rare entity that frequently yields to severe , acute-onset neurological deficits .
background	Although the gold standard treatment is total surgical removal of the cysts without inducing any spillage , it may not be possible to perform this in patients with multiple and fragile cysts .
background	In such cases , the neural structures should be adequately decompressed and albendazole should be administered promptly .
population	The authors describe the case of a 13-year-old girl who was admitted with a history of back pain and acute-onset lower-extremity weakness .
other	Magnetic resonance imaging scans demonstrated severe spinal cord compression caused by multiple cysts involving T-4 and the mediastinum .
intervention	The patient underwent surgery , and the cysts were removed , except for one cyst that was hardly exposed .
intervention	Following histopathological confirmation of spinal hydatid disease , she was treated with albendazole for 1 year .
outcome	One year postoperatively , the residual cyst had gradually shrunk and had almost disappeared .
outcome	Although a single case is not sufficiently promising , we believe that administration of albendazole is efficient to prevent recurrences in cases in which it is not possible to obtain total removal of the cysts without inducing spillage .

###12853899
background	Injury to the anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL ) has been suggested to alter the neuromuscular mechanism in the lower extremity .
background	However , conclusive evidence regarding this occurrence has yet to be established during closed kinetic chain exercise .
other	The purpose of this study was to assess differences in muscle activation during slideboard exercise between non-injured , ACL deficient , and ACL reconstructed individuals .
study design	Experimental design : comparative study .
other	Setting research laboratory .
population	Participants : subjects for this study included 10 healthy , non-injured ( NI ) individuals , 7 uni-lateral ACL deficient ( ACLD ) individuals , and 6 uni-lateral ACL reconstructed ( ACLR ) individuals .
other	Interventions
intervention	EMG activity was measured from the vastus medialis ( VM ) , vastus lateralis ( VL ) , medial hamstring ( MH ) , lateral hamstring ( LH ) , tibialis anterior ( TA ) , and medial gastrocnemius ( MG ) muscles during slideboard performance .
other	Measures
other	EMG for each muscle during each of 6 phases of 1 average slideboard cycle was expressed as a percentage of EMG during a maximal voluntary contraction .
outcome	The results demonstrated that during slideboard phase I the VM , VL , and TA muscles generated the greatest amount of activity as compared to the other muscles .
outcome	Vastus medialis muscle activation was found to be significantly higher than the other muscles in the involved/dominant limb , as compared to the non-involved/non-dominant limb during slideboard phase II .
outcome	During slideboard phases III-VI , tibialis anterior muscle activation was found to be consistently higher than the other muscles , while hamstring muscle activity was consistently the lowest .
outcome	It is concluded that adaptive changes following ACL injury during a dynamic , closed kinetic chain activity such as the slideboard exercise , may be a restoration of a bi-lateral balance in muscle activation .

###16540878
study design	A prospective and comparative analysis of tissue injury after mini-open lumbar fusion and conventional technique .
other	To evaluate the tissue injury quantitatively after mini-open lumbar fusion .
background	The advantages of minimally invasive techniques demonstrated by clinical reports have been a smaller scar , lesser pain , and rapid rehabilitation .
background	It has not been established , however , that the minimally invasive technique has less tissue injury and less systemic response than the conventional spine surgery .
population	Twenty patients who had undergone posterior decompression and the fusion of the L4-L5 segment for spinal stenosis were studied prospectively .
population	Ten patients that had the conventional posterior decompression and posterior lumbar interbody fusion ( PLIF ) at L4-L5 were enrolled in a control group .
population	The remaining 10 patients who underwent MISS techniques ( paramedian mini-open approach using a tubular retractor ) were enrolled in a study group .
other	The serum enzymes representing skeletal muscle injury ( creatinine kinase and aldolase ) , pro-inflammatory cytokines ( IL-6 , IL-8 ) , and anti-inflammatory cytokines ( IL-10 , IL-1 receptor antagonist ) were analyzed with ELISA techniques .
other	They were checked on the day before operation and 1 , 3 , 7 , and 14 days after operation .
outcome	Serum creatinine kinase and most of the inflammatory cytokines were significantly high in the control group on postoperative days 1 and 3 and returned to the normal level on postoperative day 7 .
outcome	Serum aldolase was significantly high on postoperative day 1 , and IL-8 remained elevated until postoperative day 7 in the control group .
outcome	Mini-open lumbar fusion may significantly contribute to the reduction of muscle injury and systemic inflammatory reactions during the acute postoperative period .
outcome	This study suggests that mini-open lumbar fusion may also play an important role in preventing medical morbidity after spinal surgery .

###10682182
background	Up to 35 % of the world population suffer from functional gastrointestinal disorders ( FGD ) , accounting for about 40 % of gastroenterologic and 12 % of primary care practice .
background	Society incurs high costs from FGD morbidity in terms of medical workups and absenteeism from work .
background	FGD are characterized by chronic and recurrent symptoms of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract without detectable structural or biochemical abnormalities .
background	In the absence of universal biologic markers , the diagnosis is based on consensus symptom criteria ( 1 ) .
background	This chapter reviews current knowledge of the pathophysiology and provides a practical approach to patients with functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome , 2 of the most common functional GI syndromes .

###11490372
background	Chemoresistance may involve the anti-apoptotic transcriptional regulator , nuclear factor-kappa B ( NF-kappa B ) .
other	The purpose of this study was to determine whether chemotherapy induces NF-kappa B activation in a human colon cancer cell line ( SW48 ) and whether NF-kappa B is constitutively activated in colorectal cancer .
population	SW48 cells were incubated with gemcitabine hydrochloride ( Gemzar ) in the presence and absence of the 26s proteasome inhibitor , MG132 , and NF-kappa B binding ( electrophoretic mobility shift assay ) , DNA synthesis ( tritiated thymidine uptake ) , cell viability
intervention	NF-kappa B binding ( electrophoretic mobility shift assay ) was also assayed in 10 colorectal cancer tumors .
outcome	SW48 cells demonstrated constitutive NF-kappa B binding that was enhanced by gemcitabine hydrochloride in a dose-dependent manner .
outcome	MG132 inhibited NF-kappa B binding and enhanced gemcitabine hydrochloride 's inhibition of DNA synthesis ( gemcitabine hydrochloride = 73 % + / - 1.4 % vs gemcitabine hydrochloride + MG132 = 6 % + / - 0.4 % , P < .05 ) , cell killing ( gemcitabine hydrochloride = 87 %
outcome	NF-kappa B binding was increased in 8 of 10 colorectal cancer tumors compared with adjacent normal mucosa .
outcome	Gemcitabine hydrochloride enhances NF-kappa B binding in a colorectal cancer cell line , whereas inhibition of NF-kappa B enhances gemcitabine hydrochloride 's antitumor activity .
outcome	NF-kappa B is also activated in human colorectal cancer .
outcome	NF-kappa B may identify chemoresistant tumors , whereas inhibition of NF-kappa B may be a novel , biologically based therapy .

###12898578
background	Although a number of studies have shown that human impulsive traits are associated with indices of central serotonin function , few researchers have investigated the relationship between a polymorphism in the serotonin transporter gene-linked region ( 5-HTT
population	We determined the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in 123 employed Japanese male adults using the polymerase chain reaction .
other	The distribution of allelic frequency was determined and also investigated the relationship of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism to a impulsive trait as measured by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale , 11th version ( BIS-11 ) .
outcome	The distribution of allelic frequency was found to be almost identical to that previously reported in Japanese ( the frequency for the long ( L ) / L , L/short ( S ) , and S/S genotypes was : 3 , 28 , and 68 % , respectively ) .
outcome	In a comparison between the genotype groups , the S/S genotype group significantly higher scored for the total BIS-11 and the subscale attentional impulsiveness than the L/S + L/L genotype group .
outcome	These findings suggest that individuals with a homozygous S-allele may be more impulsive than those with the other genotype .

###7596884
background	The objective of this study was to identify a group of patients with mild closed head injury , lack of other significant trauma , and normal head computerized tomograph ( CT ) , who could be safely observed at home by a reliable caretaker .
study design	Data were from a retrospective chart review of pediatric emergency department ( PED ) and hospital course of an urban university children 's hospital .
other	The pediatric trauma registry was used to identify patients one to 17 years old seen in the PED with closed-head injury and normal head CT between June 1991 and August 1992 .
other	A total of 746 patients with heads injury were seen in the PED , and 161 patients with closed-head injury were admitted during the study period .
population	Sixty-two patients ( mean age = 8.5 + / - 5 years ) met inclusion criteria with hospital admission , mild head injury , Glasgow Coma Scale > or = 13 , and normal head CT. .
other	Of the patients 63 % ( 34 ) were male and 37 % ( 23 ) were female , with 74 % ( 46 ) African-American and 26 % ( 16 ) Caucasian .
outcome	The most frequent mechanisms of injury were 27 % ( 17 ) fall from height ( mean height = 6.7 + / - 4.6 feet ) and 18 % ( 11 ) passenger in a motor vehicle accident .
outcome	Patients had a median Glasgow Coma Scale of 15 ( mean 14.8 ) and median abbreviated injury score of 2 ( mean = 1.8 ) .
outcome	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###10362442
background	The significant morbidity and mortality associated with severe depression and its psychotic or melancholic subtypes necessitate effective and well-tolerated therapy .
background	This review evaluates antidepressant treatments for patients with severe depression .
population	Comparative clinical trials conducted on patients with severe depression were found by an English-language MEDLINE search ( 1985 to present ) .
other	Additional studies were identified in article bibliographies .
other	Search terms included depressive disorders , depression and severe , hospitalized , melancholic or melancholia , psychotic , and endogenous .
outcome	Evidence for efficacy of SSRIs in severe or melancholic depression comes from a small but growing number of controlled studies with adequate samples , as well as meta-analyses and retrospective subgroup analysis of premarketing trials .
outcome	In studies that defined response as a 50 % or greater reduction in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression ( HAM-D ) scores , response rates ranged from 53 % to 64 % for SSRIs and 43 % to 70 % for TCAs .
outcome	In separate trials on severe depression , venlafaxine and mirtazapine were both more effective than placebo and an active comparator .
outcome	Nefazodone and bupropion were each found to be more effective than placebo in studies of severe depression .
outcome	Venlafaxine and mirtazapine have been found to be more effective than fluoxetine .
outcome	SSRIs and TCAs are comparably effective for the treatment of severe or melancholic depression .
outcome	SSRIs and other newer agents appear to be better tolerated than TCAs , specifically lacking adverse anticholinergic and cardiovascular effects that may limit the use of TCAs .
outcome	Emerging data with venlafaxine and mirtazapine in severely depressed patients with or without melancholia support the efficacy of these treatments .
outcome	Nefazodone and bupropion were found to be effective in hospitalized depressed patients .
outcome	Electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ) or combined antidepressant therapy may be useful in some patients with severe depression .
outcome	Patients with severe psychotic depression may respond better to an antipsychotic-antidepressant combination .

###15204365
background	The study examined whether associations between bone , body composition and strength are age dependent .
population	Two age levels ( premenarcheal girls and postmenopausal women on HRT ) were studied in a 10-month follow-up .
other	Bone , lean and fat mass were measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry ( DXA ) , and strength was measured using an isokinetic dynamometer .
outcome	In girls , significant correlations were found between mass ( lean , fat and body mass ) , strength and most bone characteristics ( r = 0.15-0 .93 ) .
outcome	At the proximal femur changes in bone mineral density ( BMD ) were moderately related to changes in body composition .
outcome	In the women , body mass and lean mass were significantly correlated with most bone characteristics ( r = 0.34-0 .82 ) .
outcome	Low to moderate correlations were observed between changes in bone and changes in body composition .
outcome	After controlling for lean mass the relation between strength and bone was no longer significant .
outcome	In premenarcheal girls , bone is partly determined by mass , with lean mass the most important predictor at the femoral sites .
outcome	In postmenopausal women , lean mass is an important determinant of bone mineral content ( BMC ) and BMD , but changes in BMD are related to changes in fat .
outcome	The relation between strength and BMD is mainly attributable to the relation between lean mass and BMD .
outcome	The contributory effects of soft tissue to bone change over different life periods .

###16302417
background	For the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of malignant tumors of the ovaries , transvaginal ultrasound is currently the preferred method .
background	Ultrasound is indispensable for the pre-operative assessment of the biological significance of an ovarian tumor .
background	With its aid , the indication for a surgical procedure can be established with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity and , where appropriate , the therapeutic approach definitively established .
background	A further important application is screening for the early detection of an ovarian cancer .
outcome	Although a high level of sensitivity and specificity can also be achieved for such an indication , an otherwise desirable screening procedure -- at least in high-risk groups and post-menopausal women -- is nevertheless controversial on account of the low preva

###17977769
background	A 68-year-old woman with a fragility fracture of the fourth lumbar vertebra was treated with a first vertebroplasty using methylmetacrylate with an initial good pain relief .
outcome	Early painful recurrent vertebral fractures led to iterative vertebroplasties .
outcome	Furthermore prophylactic treatment with methylmetacrylate of a non-fractured vertebra located between two previously injected ones did not prevent its collapse .
outcome	This case report underlines the lack of a clear evaluation benefit/risk ratio of these procedures in patients with non-malignant bone fragility .

###2150530
background	The influence of fish oil and safflower oil contained in the common Japanese diet as the main dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid source on plasma fatty acids in ten female student volunteers ( 21-22 years old ) was investigated .
intervention	The subjects were divided into two groups and fed the experimental diets for five days .
intervention	The total daily fat intake in the fish diet and safflower oil diet was 54.4 g and 56.2 g , respectively , and the fat derived from fish and safflower oil was 16 g and 23 g , respectively .
outcome	The proportion of linoleic acid was reduced in the plasma of subjects fed the fish diet and increased in the plasma of subjects fed the safflower oil diet .
outcome	The plasma levels of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) were significantly elevated in the fish diet group .
outcome	The ratio of EPA/arachidonic acid ( AA ) was higher , and those of n-6 / n-3 and n-9 / n-3 were lower in the plasma of subjects fed the fish diet when compared to the results obtained from plasma of subjects fed the safflower oil diet .
outcome	From these results , it seems likely that fish oil in the common Japanese diet is a favorable source of plasma EPA and DHA even in such short term supplementation and with such a small amount of daily consumption .

###16647594
background	Patients suffering from inoperable critical leg ischemia ( CLI ) ultimately face a major amputation .
background	Spinal cord stimulation ( SCS ) has been introduced as a possible treatment option .
intervention	This paper presents the best available evidence from a systematic review on the effectiveness of SCS in these patients and discusses the indications for SCS therapy .
outcome	A meta-analysis of six controlled trials , including 444 patients , showed 11 % ( 95 % confidence interval : -0.02 to -0.20 ) lower amputation rate after 12 months compared to those treated with optimum medical treatment .
outcome	In addition , SCS patients required significantly fewer analgesics and showed a significant clinical improvement .
outcome	These positive effects have to be weighed against the higher costs and ( generally minor ) complications of SCS .
outcome	TcpO ( 2 ) measurements were found to be useful in selecting the most respondent patients , yielding a 12-month limb salvage up to 83 % .
outcome	Hence , SCS should be considered as a possible treatment option in patients with CLI , particularly if their foot TcpO ( 2 ) is between 10 and 30 mmHg .

###14693701
population	To elucidate mechanisms of melanocortin action , we investigated the effects of a melanocortin receptor agonist ( melanotetan II [ MTII ] ) in lean C57BL/6J and obese ( DIO , ob/ob , UCP1-DTA ) mice .
outcome	MTII administration ( 100 microg q.i.d. i.p. ) for 24 h results in similar weight loss but a more pronounced decrease of food intake in DIO mice .
outcome	After 4 and 8 days of MTII treatment , however , the reduction in both food intake and body weight is more pronounced in DIO mice than in lean mice .
outcome	MTII administration for 24 h prevents food deprivation-induced alterations in hypothalamic neuropeptide Y ( NPY ) and liver adiponectin receptor 1 and adiponectin receptor 2 mRNA expression , but does not alter hypothalamic mRNA expression of melanocortin 4
outcome	NPY and agouti gene-related protein ( AgRP ) mRNA expression after 8 days of MTII is increased to levels comparable to pair-fed mice .
outcome	In summary , 1 ) MTII is an effective treatment for obesity and related metabolic defects in leptin-resistant ( DIO , UCP1-DTA ) and leptin-sensitive ( ob/ob ) mouse models of obesity ; 2 ) the effects of MTII on food intake and body weight are more pronounced in

###12183674
background	Opioids are commonly used for pain relief clinically and reduce hyperalgesia in most animal models .
background	Two injections of acidic saline into one gastrocnemius muscle 5 days apart produce a long-lasting bilateral hyperalgesia without associated tissue damage .
other	The current study was undertaken to assess the effects of opioid agonists on mechanical hyperalgesia induced by repeated intramuscular injections of acid .
intervention	Morphine ( mu-agonist ) , [ D-Ala ( 2 ) , N-Me-Phe ( 4 ) , Gly-ol ( 5 ) ] - enkephalin ( mu-agonist ; DAMGO ) , 4 - [ ( ( alpha ) R ) - alpha - ( ( 2S ,5 R ) -4 - allyl-2 ,5 - dimethyl-1-piperazinyl ) -3 - methoxybenzyl ] - N,N-diethylbenzamide ( delta-agonist ; SNC80 ) , or ( 1S-trans ) -3,4 - dichloro-N-methyl-N - [ 2
other	Mechanical hyperalgesia was assessed by measuring the withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli ( von Frey filaments ) before the first and second intramuscular injection , 24 h after the second intramuscular injection , and for 1 h after administration of the opioid agonist or vehicle .
outcome	Morphine , DAMGO , and SNC80 dose dependently increased the mechanical withdrawal threshold back toward baseline responses .
outcome	The reduction in hyperalgesia produced by morphine and DAMGO was prevented by H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH ( 2 ) ( CTAP ) and that of SNC80 was prevented by naltrindole .
outcome	U50 ,488 had no effect on the decreased mechanical withdrawal thresholds .
outcome	Thus , activation of mu - and delta - , but not kappa - , opioid receptors in the spinal cord reduces mechanical hyperalgesia following repeated intramuscular injection of acid , thus validating the use of this new model of chronic muscle pain .

###15882372
intervention	This paper reports a systematic review of seven studies evaluating the efficacy of cognitive behavioural therapy ( CBT ) for persistent primary insomnia .
background	Insomnia is one of the most common health complaints reported in the primary care setting .
background	Although non-pharmacological treatments such as the CBT have been suggested to be useful in combating the persistent insomnia , the efficacy and clinical utility of CBT for primary insomnia have yet to be determined .
other	A systematic search of Ovid , MEDLINE , psychINFO , PsycARTICLES , CINAHL , and EMBASE databases of papers published between 1993 and 2004 was conducted , using the following medical subject headings or key words insomnia , primary insomnia , psychophysiological insomnia , sleep maintenance disorders , sleep initiation disorders , non-pharmacological treatment , and cognitive behavioural therapy .
other	A total of seven papers was included in the review .
outcome	Stimulus control , sleep restriction , sleep hygiene education and cognitive restructuring were the main treatment components .
outcome	Interventions were provided by psychiatrists except for one study , in which the CBT was delivered by nurses .
outcome	Among beneficial outcomes , improvement of sleep efficacy , sleep onset latency and wake after sleep onset were the most frequently reported .
outcome	In addition , participants significantly reduced sleep medication use .
outcome	Some studies gave follow-up data which indicated that the CBT produced durable clinical changes in total sleep time and night-time wakefulness .
outcome	These randomized controlled trial studies demonstrated that CBT was superior to any single-component treatment such as stimulus control , relaxation training , educational programmes , or other control conditions .
outcome	However , heterogeneity in patient assessment , CBT protocols , and outcome indicators made determination of the relative efficacy and clinical utility of the therapy difficult .
outcome	Therefore , the standard components of CBT need to be clearly defined .
outcome	In addition , a comprehensive assessment of patients is essential for future studies .

###17936809
background	Transurethral bladder tumor resection is associated with imperfect clinical staging and incomplete tumor removal .
background	Transurethral prostate resection may be complicated by inadvertent damage to the urinary sphincter , bladder neck and trigone .
background	We performed a multicenter pilot and feasibility study of a novel working element for resectoscopes designed to improve the efficacy and safety of transurethral endoscopic surgery .
other	An innovative working element for resectoscopes was developed to convert the standard in/out linear/axial movement at the handgrip into a side-to-side , bidirectional , lateral rotating motion .
other	The device is compatible with current optical technology and conventional electrocautery generators , and it has been granted marketing approval .
other	It consists of variably sized cutting loops designed for transurethral resection of bladder tumors and the prostate .
population	To date 80 patients with bladder cancer ( 38 ) or benign prostatic hyperplasia ( 42 ) have undergone surgery with this instrument at our 3 clinical sites .
outcome	No safety concerns were evident .
outcome	When used during transurethral bladder tumor resection , lateral resection at the base of the tumor enabled accurate depth of penetration into the bladder wall , which may decrease the risk of bladder perforation and improve pathological assessment of tumor
outcome	During transurethral prostate resection this novel tool facilitated dissection of adenoma adjacent to the verumontanum and prostatovesical junction , which may decrease the risk of sphincteric damage and bladder neck injury .
outcome	A novel resectoscope is currently under prospective clinical investigation to establish its surgical and pathological efficacy , ease of use and side effect profile .
outcome	Current data suggest that the learning curve is mild , its use is safe and it provides distinct advantages when used for transurethral resection of bladder tumors and the prostate .

###2505606
background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) is often associated with undernutrition .
background	Although loss of lean tissue may be detrimental to the host , a protective effect is conveyed as cardiac demands are reduced by lower whole-body oxygen consumption ( VO2 ) and circulating fluid volume .
population	The aim of this study was to determine if continuous nasoenteric feeding could promote an anabolic state with increments in lean tissue in moderate-severe CHF patients without adversely effecting cardiac performance .
intervention	Undernourished CHF patients on a metabolic ward were fed a formula diet infused intragastrically for 2 wk .
other	The energy infusion rate was maintained at 1.4-1 .8 X measured resting metabolic rate .
other	During the infusion period , body weight , elemental balances , VO2 , and cardiac function ( echocardiography ) were monitored .
outcome	Results showed a loss in weight and extracellular fluid , gain in lean body mass ( eg , + delta N and delta K ) , unaltered VO2 , and unchanged cardiac function .
outcome	Cardiac cachexia is therefore safely and effectively manageable by maintenance or repletional levels of nasoenteric feeding .

###16456449
background	Using a model of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) in the rat , this study was undertaken to characterize the short-term biochemical changes of IL-1beta , IL-10 , and tumor necrosis factor TNF-alpha to determine whether injury in the brain elicits a systemic cyto
population	Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a TBI using a weight-drop model and then killed at various time points after injury .
other	Samples of blood , brain , and liver were recovered and analyzed for concentrations of IL-1beta , IL-10 , and TNF-alpha as well as IL-1beta and IL-10 mRNA expression in liver and brain .
outcome	In brain , IL-1beta increased in the first hour after injury , peaked at 8 hours , and declined during the final 16 hours .
outcome	IL-10 quickly increased during the first 4 hours and then gradually rose over the last 20 hours .
outcome	Analysis of liver showed no upregulation of these markers and plasma IL-1beta and IL-10 were unchanged compared with controls .
outcome	Although not upregulated in brain , TNF-alpha showed a statistically significant ( p < 0.05 ) rise in plasma from 14 + / - 16 pg/mL at 20 minutes to 91 + / - 28 pg/mL at 24 hours .
outcome	Using a model of TBI , we have demonstrated that there is a rise in both IL-1beta and IL-10 in the injured rat brain within the first 24 hours after injury without a corresponding rise in either plasma or liver .
outcome	Therefore , it appears as if two strong indicators of brain injury severity are expressed and possibly carry out their actions solely in the brain .

###16327580
background	To compare the pattern of familial aggregation of psychopathology in children who are good responders ( GR ) to methylphenidate ( MPH ) versus those who are poor responders ( PR ) .
population	A total of 118 clinically referred children ages 6 to 12 years , diagnosed with ADHD participated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , randomized 2-week crossover trial of MPH from 1999 to 2004 .
intervention	A low dose of 0.5 mg/kg of body weight of MPH divided in two equal doses was used .
other	Family history was obtained by interviewing at least one key historian relative of each subject using Family Interview for Genetic Studies .
other	Information was collected on 342 first-degree and 1,151 second-degree relatives of children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder .
outcome	Forty-four subjects showed mild or no improvement ( PR ) and 74 showed moderate or very much improvement ( GR ) on MPH over placebo .
outcome	First-degree relatives of GR subjects were at significantly higher risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder than the relatives of PR subjects ( p < .05 ) .
outcome	Second-degree relatives of the GR were at significantly higher risk of antisocial personality disorder compared to the relatives of PR subjects ( p < .05 ) .
outcome	The significantly higher presence of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in the first-degree relatives and of antisocial personality disorder in the second-degree relatives of GR children suggests that this group may , at least partially , be distinct

###14533099
background	Infection with human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is often accompanied by neurological complications .
background	One of these includes disorders affecting the peripheral and visual nervous system , especially during the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) stage .
background	The peripheral neuropathies associated with infection by HIV are an assorted group of disorders , which include acute or chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy , multiple mononeuropathy and neuropathies related to the herpes zoster virus or cytom
background	The most common and clinically important of the neuropathies is painful distal sensory polyneuropathy ( DSP ) .
background	The most severely affected cranial nerves are V and VII .
background	The isolation of HIV from the affected nerves suggests a direct role , but an immune mechanism is also possible .
background	Although cytomegalovirus may be associated with a variety of peripheral nerve syndromes , its clinical presentation as a primary demyelinating polyneuropathy is unusual .
outcome	DSP and antiretroviral toxic neuropathy are the most common HIV-associated neuropathies .
outcome	Both HIV infection , by itself , and the neurotoxicity of certain drugs in tritherapy contribute to the development of painful peripheral sensory neuropathy .
outcome	In researching into the cause of HIV-associated neuropathy further studies are needed to determine the relative roles played by the viral infection and the activation of the immunological factors that contribute to the pathogenesis of the damage done in a

###11758872
background	Neuropathic pain may be defined as pain related to abnormal somatosensory processing in either the peripheral or central nervous system .
background	This pathophysiologic label is typically applied when the painful symptom is associated with an overt injury to neural structures , is part of a recognized syndrome , or has a dysesthetic quality ( usually burning , shooting , or electrical ) .
background	Most neural injury does not lead to clinically important neuropathic pain , but sometimes even a small degree of tissue injury can precipitate severe pain .
background	In the cancer population , neuropathic pain is often related to compression , direct neoplastic invasion of the peripheral nerves or spinal cord , or to a neuropathy caused by chemotherapy .
background	To manage neuropathic pain in this population , nonopioid adjuvant drugs that are neuroactive or neuromodulatory are often needed to complement opioid therapy .
background	The primary adjuvant analgesics are anticonvulsant and antidepressant medications , but a wide variety of other drugs are also used .
background	To optimize analgesic therapy in patients with neuropathic pain , both opioid and adjuvant analgesics must be used effectively .

###19169179
background	An adolescent 15-yr-old male competitive gymnast presented to a university-based multidisciplinary spine institute with a persistent low-back pain for 18 mos .
background	Although the results of x-rays were negative , his pain rendered him unable to compete in his sport any longer .
background	A computed tomography scan was performed , which showed a bilateral pars fracture at L5 , without spondylolisthesis .
background	A nuclear medicine bone scan revealed negative findings , confirming chronic nonunion .
background	The patient completed a 4-wk course of physical therapy 6 mos before our intervention , without any relief of pain or radiologic evidence of healing .
intervention	The patient was treated with a bone stimulator for 4 hrs/day and was recommended to wear a warm-and-form-type brace .
other	Isometric core trunk exercises were also initiated .
outcome	Only after 6 wks of treatment , the subject showed clinical improvement at the follow-up visit .
outcome	Computed tomography scan performed 12 wks after the initial scan showed complete union of the fracture correlating with clinical improvement .
outcome	Two years later , the athlete remains completely pain-free , is training regularly , and is able to compete on a national and , possibly , international level .

###10421001
background	This study investigated the effect of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) on time - , event - , and activity-based prospective memory using a laboratory paradigm developed in the literature on ageing ( Einstein , McDaniel , Richardson , Guynn , & Cunfer , 1995 ) .
population	The participants were 12 individuals with severe long-term TBI and 12 community controls .
other	Participants were asked to answer general-knowledge questions on a computer for two sessions .
other	The time - and event-based tasks were embedded in this filler activity .
intervention	Participants were also required to carry out activity-based actions at the end of the two sessions .
outcome	Participants with TBI performed significantly worse than did controls on all three prospective-memory tasks , indicating that TBI affects not only retrospective but also prospective memory .

###17943778
background	There is great interest in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) and the associated large burden of disease .
background	COPD is characterised by frequent day by day fluctuations , and repetitive clinical exacerbations are typical .
background	Self-management is a term applied to educational programmes aimed at teaching skills needed to carry out medical regimens specific to the disease , guide health behaviour change , and provide emotional support for patients to control their disease and live
background	In COPD , the value of self-management education is not yet clear .
background	The first Cochrane review about self-management was published in 2003 .
background	It was intended to shed light on the effectiveness of self-management programmes in COPD and the relative efficacy of their constitutive elements .
background	No conclusions about the effectiveness of self-management could be drawn because of the large variation in outcome measures used in the limited number of included studies .
other	This article describes the first update of this review .
other	The objective of this review was to assess the settings , methods and efficacy of COPD self-management education programmes on health outcomes and use of health care services .
other	We searched the Cochrane Airways Group trial register , MEDLINE ( January 1985 to January 2006 ) , reference lists , and abstracts of medical conferences .
population	Controlled trials ( randomised and non-randomised ) of self-management education in patients with COPD .
other	Studies focusing mainly on pulmonary rehabilitation and studies without usual care as a control group were excluded .
other	Two reviewers independently assessed study quality and extracted data .
other	Investigators were contacted for additional information .
outcome	The reviewers included 15 group comparisons drawn from 14 trials .
outcome	They assessed a broad-spectrum of interventions and health outcomes with different follow-up times .
outcome	Meta-analyses could often not appropriately be performed because of heterogeneity among studies .
outcome	The studies showed a significant reduction in the probability of at least one hospital admission among patients receiving self-management education compared to those receiving usual care ( OR 0.64 ; 95 % CI ( 0.47 to 0.89 ) ) .
outcome	This translates into a one year NNT ranging from 10 ( 6 to 35 ) for patients with a 51 % risk of exacerbation , to an NNT of 24 ( 16 to 80 ) for patients with a 13 % risk of exacerbation .
outcome	On the disease specific SGRQ , differences reached statistical significance at the 5 % level on the total score ( WMD -2.58 ; 95 % CI ( -5.14 to -0.02 ) ) and impact domain ( WMD -2.83 ; 95 % CI ( -5.65 to -0.02 ) ) , but these difference did not reach the clinically re
outcome	A small but significant reduction was detected in dyspnoea measured with the BORG-scale ( WMD -0.53 ; 95 % CI ( -0.96 to -0.10 ) ) .
outcome	No significant effects were found either in number of exacerbations , emergency department visits , lung function , exercise capacity , and days lost from work .
outcome	Inconclusive results were observed in doctor and nurse visits , on symptoms other than dyspnoea , the use of courses of oral corticosteroids and antibiotics , and the use of rescue medication .
outcome	It is likely that self-management education is associated with a reduction in hospital admissions with no indications for detrimental effects in other outcome parameters .
outcome	This would in itself already be enough reason for recommending self-management education in COPD .
outcome	However , because of heterogeneity in interventions , study populations , follow-up time , and outcome measures , data are still insufficient to formulate clear recommendations regarding the form and contents of self-management education programmes in COPD .
outcome	There is an evident need for more large RCTs with a long-term follow-up , before more conclusions can be drawn .

###16207647
background	Clinical and experimental evidence has supported a benefit for the inclusion of fish oils ( a primary source of omega-3 fatty acids ) as a component of a normal healthy diet .
background	Polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids have been demonstrated to be of benefit in a number of inflammation-associated disease states , including atherosclerosis , autoimmune disorders , malignancy , and sepsis .
background	The beneficial effects of omega-3 fatty acids are thought to occur through the postulated antiinflammatory actions of omega-3 fats ; however , the specific mechanism ( s ) of action has not been completely defined .
background	In this review , we discuss the recent progress made in our laboratory on defining the mechanisms of omega-3 fatty acids activity .

###15899921
background	To test the effectiveness of a home based developmental education intervention in improving outcome at 5 years for very preterm infants .
population	The Avon Premature Infant Project ( APIP ) is a randomised controlled trial in which the parents of 284 babies born < 33 weeks gestational age received a developmental education programme , a social support intervention , or standard care .
other	A term reference population was also recruited .
other	This study reports outcomes at 5 years ( mean age 58 months 15 days ) for 187 ( 66 % ) of these children without disability .
other	Outcomes were assessed using the British Ability Scales II for cognitive development , the Movement ABC for motor impairment , and the Child Behavior Checklist for behavioural problems .
outcome	Preterm infants showed poorer cognitive performance than their term peers .
outcome	Mean ( SD ) general conceptual ability ( GCA ) scores were : Portage 99.2 ( 15.7 ) ; parent adviser 100.3 ( 14.8 ) ; preterm control 101.1 ( 15.0 ) ; term reference 107.2 ( 13.4 ) .
outcome	There were no significant differences between preterm groups in GCA scores indicating no effect of either intervention .
outcome	Similarly , there was no significant effect of intervention on behavioural or motor outcomes .
outcome	Further analyses , in which outcome data were adjusted for social factors , did not reveal any differences between the three preterm groups or by subgroups classified by a range of perinatal variables .
outcome	The small advantage shown at 2 years of age is no longer detectable at 5 years .
outcome	These results question the effectiveness of early intervention in enhancing cognitive , behavioural , and motor function at 5 years .

###17673692
background	Obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA ) is linked to increased cardiovascular risk , but the impact of mild forms of OSA and their treatment on cardiovascular outcomes remains controversial .
other	To prospectively investigate cardiovascular outcomes in treated versus untreated patients with OSA .
population	Consecutive sleep laboratory patients with all degrees of OSA were included .
other	Endpoints were nonfatal ( myocardial infarction , stroke , and acute coronary syndrome requiring revascularization procedures ) and fatal ( death from myocardial infarction or stroke ) cardiovascular events .
other	Comparison of event-free survival rates in treated versus untreated patients ( Kaplan-Meier estimates , log-rank test ) .
intervention	Of 449 patients enrolled ( age , 56.0 + / - 10.5 years ; body mass index , 30.8 + / - 5.4 kg/m ( 2 ) ) , 364 patients received OSA treatment , and 85 patients remained untreated .
other	Median follow-up was 72.0 months ( range , 1-156 ) .
outcome	Mean apnea-hypopnea index before treatment was 30.9 + / - 21.8 / hour in treated and 15.3 + / - 13.0 / hour in untreated patients , but there were no differences in cardiovascular comorbidities or risk factors .
outcome	In patients with mild-moderate OSA ( n = 288 ) , events were more frequent in untreated patients ( estimated event-free survival at 10 yr , 51.8 vs. 80.3 % [ P < 0.001 ] ; absolute risk reduction , 28.5 % ; number needed to treat to prevent one event/10 yr , 3.5 ) .
outcome	After adjustment for age , gender , cardiovascular risk factors , and comorbidities at baseline , OSA treatment was an independent predictor for events ( hazard ratio , 0.36 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.21-0 .62 ; P < 0.001 ) .
outcome	OSA treatment was associated with a cardiovascular risk reduction of 64 % independent from age and preexisting cardiovascular comorbidities .
outcome	OSA treatment should be considered for primary and secondary cardiovascular prevention , even in milder OSA .

###17646104
background	In 1991 , a population-based epidemiologic traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) study was done in urban and rural areas of Taiwan ; this was 5 years before the helmet use law was passed and 8 years before the drink driving law was passed .
intervention	In order to evaluate the impact of three major determinants ( time , geography , and legislation ) on the epidemiology of TBI , we conducted a prospective study in 2001 and used the 1991 data to examine the differences in TBI distribution in urban and rural Ta
population	In 2001 , 5754 TBI cases were collected from the urban area of Taipei City , and 1474 TBI cases were collected from the rural area of Hualien County .
outcome	The TBI incidence rate in Taipei City in 2001 was estimated to be 218/100 ,000 population ( 285/100 ,000 for males and 152/100 ,000 for females ) .
outcome	When compared to the 1991 data , the incidence rate in 2001 had increased by 20 % .
outcome	The TBI incidence rate in Hualien County in 2001 was estimated to be 417/100 ,000 population ( 516/100 ,000 for males and 306/100 ,000 for females ) ; this was a 37 % increase over the 1991 data .
outcome	Our study found that the distribution of causes and age distribution had shifted significantly over the 10-year period .
outcome	In 2001 , the age group with the highest incidence was 20-29 years , while in 1991 it had been the over 70 years age group .
outcome	While traffic-related TBI had decreased , falls and assaults had increased in 2001 .
outcome	We also found that legislation , such as the helmet law , affects TBI distribution by decreasing the traffic-related TBI rate , decreasing the admission severity of TBI , and reducing TBI-related mortality .
outcome	Finally , geography plays a crucial role in the outcome of TBI ; over the 10 year period , Taipei had an increase in moderately severe outcomes , while Hualien had an increase in more severe outcomes .
outcome	Comparative studies of TBI in urban and rural areas have shown that time , legislation , and geography are crucial determinants of TBI epidemiology .
outcome	Although time and legal interventions seem to have more of an impact , geography does affect TBI outcomes .

###8527226
background	Adrenoleukodystrophy ( ALD ) is an X-linked disorder that involves mainly the nervous system white matter and adrenal cortex .
background	It is associated with the accumulation of saturated very-long-chain fatty acids ( VLCFAs ) , such as hexacosanoic acid ( C26 :0 ) , that occurs as a result of the impaired capacity to degrade these substances , a reaction that normally takes place in the peroxiso
background	The VLCFAs originate from the diet and are also synthesized endogenously .
background	Interest in dietary therapy arose from the observation that the administration of oils containing erucic and oleic acid ( Lorenzo 's oil ) , when combined with restriction of dietary intake of VLCFAs , can normalize plasma VLCFA levels in ALD patients .
background	Clinical results in patients who are already symptomatic have been disappointing .
background	However , preliminary data , still in need of confirmation , suggest that dietary therapy begun in asymptomatic patients can reduce the frequency and severity of later neurological disability .

###11687191
background	Many treatments are available for whiplash-patients , but to date , no evidence exists for their effectiveness .
population	The objective of this systematic review was to assess the efficacy of conservative treatment in patients with whiplash-injuries ( rated as Whiplash-Associated Disorders [ WAD ] I or II ) .
other	A computerized literature search of Medline , Embase , Cinahl , Psychlit and the Cochrane Controlled Trial Register through June 1998 was carried out .
other	We also screened reference lists of publications of identified randomized trials and relevant systematic reviews .
other	Studies were selected for inclusion if they fit the following criteria design was a ( randomized ) clinical trial ( RCT ) ; all patients had suffered a whiplash-injury ; the type of intervention was a conservative one ; pain , global perceived effect , or participation in daily activities was used as one of the outcome measures ; and the publication was written in English , French , German or Dutch .
other	The methodological quality of the studies was independently assessed by two reviewers using the Maastricht-Amsterdam list .
other	Three quality scores were calculated using this criteria list the Overall methodological Quality Score , the Internal Validity Score and the Delphi Quality Score .
other	The conclusion of the review was based on articles that scored a quality score of at least 50 percent of the maximum available score on two out of three quality scores .
other	Eleven studies met the inclusion criteria .
outcome	A broad variety of conservative interventions were evaluated , and only one study was performed in chronic whiplash patients .
outcome	Only three studies satisfied at least 50 percent on two out of three quality scores indicating poor overall methodological quality .
outcome	A high rank correlation was observed among the three methods of quality .
outcome	Because of the heterogeneity of patient selection , interventions and outcome measures , no statistical pooling was performed .
outcome	This review indicates that active treatments show a beneficial effect on at least one of the primary outcome measures , preferably pain .
outcome	In other words , rest and immobilization using collars are not recommended for the treatment of whiplash , while active interventions , such as advice to ` maintain usual activities ' might be effective in whiplash
outcome	Nevertheless , caution is needed when attempting to draw conclusions regarding the efficacy of conservative treatments in whiplash-patients , because of the paucity of high-quality studies .
outcome	No conclusions can be drawn about the most effective therapy for chronic whiplash-patients because only one low quality trial was identified .

###16437491
background	Women with endometriosis who are treated with in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) have a lower pregnancy rate compared to women with tubal factor infertility .
background	It has been suggested that the administration of gonadotrophin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonists for a few months prior to IVF or ICSI increases the pregnancy rate .
population	To determine the effectiveness of administering GnRH agonists for three to six months prior to IVF or ICSI in women with endometriosis .
other	We used computer searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) , MEDLINE , EMBASE , the National Research Register ( NRR ) and the MDSG Specialised Register of controlled trials .
other	We handsearched proceedings of annual meetings of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine ( ASRM ) and the European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology ( ESHRE ) .
other	We reviewed lists of references in original research and review articles .
other	We contacted experts in various countries to identify unpublished trials .
other	We included randomised controlled trials using any GnRH agonist prior to IVF or ICSI to treat women with any degree of endometriosis diagnosed by laparoscopy or laparotomy DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS
other	Two independent review authors abstracted data ( HNS and JGV ) .
other	We sent e-mails to investigators to seek additional information .
other	We assessed the validity of each study using the methods suggested in the Cochrane Handbook .
other	The data were checked by the third review author ( SD ) and any disagreement was resolved by arbitration with the fourth review author ( AA ) .
other	We generated 2 x 2 tables for principal outcome measures .
other	The Peto-modified Mantel-Haenszel technique was used to calculate odds ratios ( OR ) and assess statistical heterogeneity between studies .
other	Three randomised controlled trials ( with 165 women ) were included .
outcome	The live birth rate per woman was significantly higher in women receiving the GnRH agonist compared to the control group ( OR 9.19 , 95 % CI 1.08 to 78.22 ) .
outcome	However , this was based on one trial reporting `` viable pregnancy '' only .
outcome	The clinical pregnancy rate per woman was also significantly higher ( three studies : OR 4.28 , 95 % CI 2.00 to 9.15 ) .
outcome	The information on miscarriage rates came from two trials with high heterogeneity and , therefore , results of the meta-analysis were doubtful .
outcome	The included studies provided insufficient data to investigate the effects of administration of GnRH agonists on multiple or ectopic pregnancies , fetal abnormalities or other complications .
outcome	The administration of GnRH agonists for a period of three to six months prior to IVF or ICSI in women with endometriosis increases the odds of clinical pregnancy by fourfold .
outcome	Data regarding adverse effects of this therapy on the mother or fetus are not available at present .

###15846666
background	People with severe hemophilia A or B , X-linked bleeding disorders due to decreased blood levels of coagulants , suffer recurrent bleeding into joints and soft tissues .
background	Before clotting factor concentrates were available , most people with severe hemophilia developed crippling musculoskeletal deformities .
background	Clotting factor concentrate prophylaxis aims to preserve joint function by converting severe hemophilia ( factor VIII or IX less than 1 % ) into a clinically milder form of the disease .
background	Prophylaxis has long been used in Sweden , but not universally adopted because of medical , psychosocial , and cost controversies .
background	Use of clotting factor concentrates is the single largest predictor of cost in treating hemophilia .
population	To determine the effectiveness of clotting factor concentrate prophylaxis in the management of people with hemophilia A or B.
other	We searched the Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group 's Trials Register comprising references from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of journals and abstract books .
other	Reference lists of relevant articles were reviewed.Most recent search January 2002 .
other	Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) evaluating people with severe hemophilia A or B , receiving prophylactic clotting factor concentrates .
other	Two reviewers independently reviewed studies for eligibility , assessed methodological quality and extracted data .
outcome	Twenty-nine studies were identified , of which four ( including 37 participants ) were eligible for inclusion .
outcome	Three studies evaluated hemophilia A ; one showed a decrease in frequency of joint bleeds with prophylaxis compared to placebo ( non-physiological dose ) , with a rate difference ( RD ) -10.80 ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) -16.33 to -5.27 ) bleeds per year .
outcome	The remaining two studies evaluating hemophilia A compared two prophylaxis regimens , one study showed no difference in joint bleed frequency , RD -5.04 ( 95 % CI -17.02 to 6.94 ) bleeds per year and another failed to demonstrate an advantage of factor VIII dos
outcome	The fourth study evaluated hemophilia B and showed fewer joint bleeds with weekly ( 15 IU/kg ) versus bi-weekly ( 7.5 IU/kg ) prophylaxis , RD -3.30 ( 95 % CI -5.50 to - 1.10 ) bleeds per year .
outcome	There is insufficient evidence to determine whether prophylactic clotting factor concentrates decrease bleeding and bleeding-related complications in hemophilia A or B , compared to placebo , on-demand treatment , or prophylaxis based on pharmacokinetic data
outcome	Well-designed RCTs are needed to assess the effectiveness of prophylactic clotting factor concentrates .
outcome	Two clinical trials are ongoing .

###16364690
background	Screening for ovarian cancer in the general population presents several unique challenges .
background	Without a clearly identified premalignant state , efforts have focused on detection of early stage disease .
background	Towards this end , investigators have focused on the use of serum markers and transvaginal ultrasound .
other	CA125 determination is the most reliable serum marker in use , and utilization of serial measurements to calculate risk of cancer appears to have greater utility than evaluation of a single value .
background	Multimodality screening focuses on combining serial CA125 measurement with transvaginal ultrasound follow-up for those with abnormal values .
background	Large prospective trials , such as the United Kingdom Collaborative Trial of Ovarian Cancer Screening ( UKCTOCS ) , are currently underway to assess the impact of various screening strategies on mortality , and to evaluate feasibility , acceptability , and morbi
background	Future research efforts will undoubtedly focus on promising techniques to examine the serum proteosome for patterns to identify early ovarian cancer .

###12071542
background	In the two decades after obstructive sleep apnea syndrome ( OSAS ) was described , it was considered a disease primarily of males .
background	As a result , for many years , epidemiologic studies of the general population examining the prevalence of OSAS included only males and investigators examined almost exclusively males in their pathophysiologic studies .
background	It has been widely recognized that OSAS in women is not as rare as it was originally believed .
background	Whereas early studies of clinic populations suggested that females made up about 10 % or less of OSAS cases , later studies of the general population suggest that about a third of all cases are females .
background	This suggests that there may be clinical under-recognition of OSAS in females .

###2607107
background	A 35-year-old woman with a long standing history of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis became physically incapacitated by heat-induced muscle weakness while sunbathing and suffered fatal sun exposure .
background	These deleterious effects of increased core temperature on the neurological symptoms have been documented for a half century .
background	Elevation of the patient 's core temperature may lead to either transient or permanent neurologic symptoms and signs that predispose to considerable morbidity and mortality .

###8670001
background	To determine the relation between various components of spasticity evaluated clinically in persons with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
study design	Case series evaluating spasticity using clinical scales commonly referenced in contemporary literature , including the Penn Spasm Frequency Scale , the Ashworth Scale , and standard scales of tendon taps , clonus , and plantar stimulation .
other	A Veterans Affairs Medical Center Spinal Cord Injury Center .
population	Eighty-five spinal cord injured individuals with varying degrees of spasticity .
outcome	Correlations demonstrated weak relationships between Spasm Frequency Scale and self-report scales of interference with function ( .407 ) and painful spasms ( .312 ) .
outcome	No clinical examination score correlated with self-report scores greater than 0.4 .
outcome	Three clinical examination scores correlated modestly ( > 0.5 ) - Ashworth score with patellar tendon taps ( .553 ) , ankle clonus with Achilles tendon tap ( .663 ) , and patellar tendon tap with adductor tendon tap ( .512 ) .
outcome	Two other clinical scales correlated weakly ( > 0.4 ) - Achilles tendon tap with patellar tendon tap ( .417 ) and plantar reflex with adductor tendon taps ( .423 ) .
outcome	Clinical scales currently used to evaluate spasticity in SCI correlate poorly with each other , suggesting that they each assess different aspects of spasticity .
outcome	The use of any single scale is likely to underrepresent the magnitude and severity of spasticity in the SCI population .
outcome	In the absence of agreement among these various scales and with the absence of an appropriate criterion standard for evaluation of spasticity , assessments of spasticity , whether clinical or neurophysiological in nature , should be comprehensive in scope .

###14984725
background	The decrease in heart rate variability ( HRV ) might be related to the hemodynamic status in heart failure .
background	However , HRV in patients with severe isolated right heart failure has not been extensively studied .
population	This study compared HRV in patients with congestive heart failure ( CHF ) and in patients with isolated right heart failure .
other	Time and frequency domain analysis of HRV on 24-h ECG recording was assessed in 15 healthy subjects and in two groups of patients with severe heart failure awaiting heart or heart/lung transplantation .
other	These were 15 patients with CHF due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy ( IDC ) and 10 patients with isolated right heart failure due to primary pulmonary hypertension ( PPH ) .
outcome	Measurement of HRV were significantly decreased in both groups of patients compared with the control group .
outcome	Patients with IDC had higher pulmonary capillary wedge pressure than patients with PPH ( P = 0.04 ) but lower pulmonary artery pressure and lower pulmonary vascular resistance ( PVR ) ( P < 0.0001 ) .
outcome	However , all the measurements of HRV were significantly lower in patients with IDC than in patients with PPH ( range 22-77 % , P < 0.05 to P < 0.01 ) .
outcome	None of the HRV measurements correlated with filling pressure measurements .
outcome	The increase in pulmonary vascular resistance in heart failure is not the main causal factor behind a decrease in HRV .

###16437495
background	Heat and cold are commonly utilised in the treatment of low-back pain by both health care professionals and people with low-back pain .
other	To assess the effects of superficial heat and cold therapy for low-back pain in adults .
other	We searched the Cochrane Back Review Group Specialised register , the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( The Cochrane Library Issue 3 , 2005 ) , MEDLINE ( 1966 to October 2005 ) , EMBASE ( 1980 to October 2005 ) and other relevant databases .
population	We included randomised controlled trials and non-randomised controlled trials that examined superficial heat or cold therapies in people with low-back pain .
other	Two authors independently assessed methodological quality and extracted data , using the criteria recommended by the Cochrane Back Review Group .
other	Nine trials involving 1117 participants were included .
outcome	In two trials of 258 participants with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain , heat wrap therapy significantly reduced pain after five days ( weighted mean difference ( WMD ) 1.06 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.68 to 1.45 , scale range 0 to 5 ) compared t
outcome	One trial of 90 participants with acute low-back pain found that a heated blanket significantly decreased acute low-back pain immediately after application ( WMD -32.20 , 95 % CI -38.69 to -25.71 , scale range 0 to 100 ) .
outcome	One trial of 100 participants with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain examined the additional effects of adding exercise to heat wrap , and found that it reduced pain after seven days .
outcome	There is insufficient evidence to evaluate the effects of cold for low-back pain , and conflicting evidence for any differences between heat and cold for low-back pain .
outcome	The evidence base to support the common practice of superficial heat and cold for low back pain is limited and there is a need for future higher-quality randomised controlled trials .
outcome	There is moderate evidence in a small number of trials that heat wrap therapy provides a small short-term reduction in pain and disability in a population with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain , and that the addition of exercise further reduces p
outcome	The evidence for the application of cold treatment to low-back pain is even more limited , with only three poor quality studies located .
outcome	No conclusions can be drawn about the use of cold for low-back pain .
outcome	There is conflicting evidence to determine the differences between heat and cold for low-back pain .

###17636722
background	Subclinical hypothyroidism is defined as an elevated serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) level with normal free thyroid hormones values .
background	The prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism is 4 % to 8 % in the general population , and up to 15 % to 18 % in women who are over 60 years of age .
background	There is considerable controversy regarding the morbidity , the clinical significance of subclinical hypothyroidism and if these patients should be treated .
other	To assess the effects of thyroid hormone replacement for subclinical hypothyroidism .
other	We searched The Cochrane Library , MEDLINE , EMBASE and LILACS .
other	Ongoing trials databases , reference lists and abstracts of congresses were scrutinized as well .
population	All studies had to be randomised controlled trials comparing thyroid hormone replacement with placebo or no treatment in adults with subclinical hypothyroidism .
other	Minimum duration of follow-up was one month .
other	Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data .
other	We contacted study authors for missing or additional information .
other	Twelve trials of six to 14 months duration involving 350 people were included .
outcome	Eleven trials investigated levothyroxine replacement with placebo , one study compared levothyroxine replacement with no treatment .
other	We did not identify any trial that assessed ( cardiovascular ) mortality or morbidity .
outcome	Seven studies evaluated symptoms , mood and quality of life with no statistically significant improvement .
outcome	One study showed a statistically significant improvement in cognitive function .
outcome	Six studies assessed serum lipids , there was a trend for reduction in some parameters following levothyroxine replacement .
outcome	Some echocardiographic parameters improved after levothyroxine replacement therapy , like myocardial relaxation , as indicated by a significant prolongation of the isovolumic relaxation time as well as diastolic dysfunction .
outcome	Only four studies reported adverse events with no statistically significant differences between groups .
outcome	In current RCTs , levothyroxine replacement therapy for subclinical hypothyroidism did not result in improved survival or decreased cardiovascular morbidity .
outcome	Data on health-related quality of life and symptoms did not demonstrate significant differences between intervention groups .
outcome	Some evidence indicates that levothyroxine replacement improves some parameters of lipid profiles and left ventricular function .

###16734999
background	Low back pain ( LBP ) is a widespread health problem and a major contributor to increasing health costs and lost work days .
background	Different pathologies cause LBP and one of these is lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis ( SPL ) .
background	There are no generally accepted and standardized methods for assessing the outcome of patients treated for degenerative lumbar SPL .
other	This study aims to assess quality of life after surgery for lumbar degenerative SPL through the adoption of outcome measures .
population	We studied 76 patients treated , for degenerative lumbar SPL , with spinal stabilization , decompression and bilateral dorsolateral fusion , followed up for at least two years .
other	We used the Roland-Morris ( RM ) scale and the Oswestry Disability Index ( ODI ) to assess the quality of life of the patients before surgery and at follow up .
other	Each patient was pre-operatively studied through standard and dynamic x-rays , CT scan and MRI of lumbar column .
other	Relationships between clinical , radiological and disability scores , grouped by categories , were tested .
other	The sample comprised 25 males and 51 females .
other	Mean age was 59.6 years ( SD 12.2 ) .
outcome	The mean duration of symptoms ( from clinical onset to surgery ) was 23.42 months ( median 13 , range 4-100 months ) .
outcome	In about half of the cases , duration of symptoms before surgery was > 12 months .
outcome	At follow up , the fusion rate was 85.5 % , and the ODI score was significantly reduced : an improvement of < 20 points in 35.7 % of patients , and of > 20 points in 55.7 % .
outcome	On the RM scale , 59.4 % of patients had a reduction > 5 points , 13.1 % a reduction of 2-4 points , and 27.5 % an unchanged or worse score .
outcome	There was no significant reduction in RM scale and ODI scores in patients with fusion versus pseudoarthrosis .
outcome	Instrumental pedicle screw fixation and arthorodesis seem to be very effective in improving quality of life , as shown by the reduced disability scores at follow up .

###11965332
background	In 1998 , a research study was conducted to compare existing programs in the European Union providing both care to people with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type , and support to their informal caregiver .
other	Five programs were selected in seven centres .
other	Home social services ( Denmark ) , Day centres ( Germany ) , Expert Centres ( Belgium , Spain ) , Group Living/Cantou ( Sweden , France ) , Respite hospitalization ( France ) .
population	In each centre , 50 patients were randomly selected .
other	The questionnaire addressed informal caregivers ( or referents ) .
other	It included the Nottingham Health Profile ( NHP ) , the Zarit Scale , and it collected data on age , sex and position ( spouse or child ) of the informal caregiver , as well as age , level of mental deterioration and disabilities of the patient .
outcome	( n = 322 subjects ) Comparatively with caregivers of Respite hospitalization patients chosen as the reference , caregivers of patients cared by Group living/Cantou and Home social services experienced a significantly lower burden .
outcome	The benefit from the Expert centre program concerned emotional reactions ( depression ) ( odds ratio = 0.32 ; P = 0.02 ) and work burden ( Zarit ) ( OR = 0.32 ; P = 0.04 ) .
outcome	The main benefit for caregivers who received Day centre help was the important reduction of feelings of social isolation ( OR = 0.13 ; P = 0.0003 ) .
outcome	The Group Living/Cantou program appeared as the most efficient way to reduce informal caregiver burden , independently from the country considered .

###16089255
background	In response to increasing demand for more accountability and improved outcomes in the provision of behavioural services , Specialist Education Services ( SES ) in New Zealand employed the trainer of trainers programme developed by the Institute for Applied B
background	The goal was to develop a national training team capable of training SES staff to carry out assessments and develop support plans that could meet defined standards .
other	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of this trainer of trainers project .
population	The primary methods of evaluation included the pre-post training comparisons of trainees ' functional assessments and positive behaviour support plans , against 140 defined criteria .
outcome	The results of this project indicated that the SES national training team was able to train SES staff to meet the same standards of service delivery as the external IABA trainers .
outcome	Further , a Periodic Service Review ( PSR ) system was implemented to insure that service standards could be maintained at a high level .
outcome	A major conclusion reached in this study was that a trainer of trainer approach appears to be effective in preparing large numbers of educational personnel to meet the increasing demands by schools for professionals to meet a high standard of service deli

###6092532
study design	The authors have completed a large descriptive study of the system of psychiatric aftercare in Metropolitan Toronto .
population	This article describes the relevant 6-month and 2-year postdischarge outcome in each of five aftercare components for 505 subjects in a traditional system of service delivery .
other	Provincial hospital , research institute , and general hospital subgroups are compared .
outcome	For the total group , recidivism and employment rates are similar to those found in previous studies .
outcome	Symptoms and distress levels are high .
outcome	Considerable numbers of subjects live in inadequate and unsatisfactory housing .
outcome	Social isolation , inadequate income , and difficulties with instrumental role functioning are persistent problems with little improvement between 6 months and 2 years postdischarge .
outcome	Differences among the subgroups vary according to type of outcome and , for the most part , can be explained by differences in the characteristics of the patients served by the three types of inpatient treatment settings .
outcome	These findings provide additional information about serious deficiencies in discharge planning and aftercare service delivery that is focused primarily upon the treatment of illness .
outcome	The authors conclude that a more balanced system of aftercare requires a shift in resources to rehabilitation programs in the community .

###14581409
background	In ventricular myocardium , the T-type Ca2 + current ( ICa , T ) , which is temporarily observed during fetal and neonatal periods , has been shown to reappear in failing/remodeling hearts .
background	However , its pathophysiological regulation has not been elucidated .
population	We utilized Dahl salt-sensitive ( DS ) rats with hypertension at the stage of concentric left ventricular ( LV ) hypertrophy ( 11 weeks old , LVH ) and at the heart failure stage ( 16 to 18 weeks old , CHF ) .
intervention	Some were treated with bosentan ( 100 mg/kg per day ) during the period from LVH to CHF .
outcome	In LVH , neither the presence of ICa , T ( measured in the freshly isolated LV myocytes ) nor an increase in alpha-1G mRNA expression were detected .
outcome	This condition was associated with increases in tissue angiotensin II ( AII ) but not with endothelin ( ET ) -1 peptides .
outcome	In contrast , in CHF , when the tissue AII remained elevated and ET-1 de novo increased , ICa , T was recorded in most of the cells ( -0.87 + / -0.18 pA/pF at -30 mV , P < 0.01 versus LVH ) .
outcome	This was associated with a significant increase in the alpha-1G mRNA level .
outcome	The chronic bosentan treatment eliminated both the elevation of alpha-1G mRNA level and ICa , T from the cells , whereas it did not affect the cell size and membrane capacitance .
outcome	In addition , 48-hour exposure to ET-1 but not AII induced ICa , T in normal adult myocytes in culture from Sprague-Dawley rats .
outcome	ICa , T channels reappear in failing but not in hypertrophied LV cardiomyocytes in a manner depending on the tissue ET-1 activation .

###12719182
background	Economic restructuring in the health services industry in the USA exemplifies general patterns of economic change propelled by neoliberalism , especially industry privatization , diminished social services , and dependence on `` flexible '' labor and m
background	Combined with the widespread entry of women into the labor force , an aging population , and minimal assistance for high quality long-term care at the end of life , these economic and social conditions raise a set of difficult policy questions for health ser
background	Set in these broad contexts , this paper situates access to and experience of health services in the home , the hospital , and nursing facility , to demonstrate how economic changes have relocated and redefined health services in ways that distinctively impac
background	This place switching of health services externalizes costs of subacute and `` daily life care '' ( the so-called custodial care ) to the sphere of the individual , their family , and communities .
background	The theoretical analysis uses current geographical and philosophical approaches to place and space , and considers the tensions between institutionally managed health care space , and the patient 's experience of receiving health services in place .
background	The place/space dilemma of health services provision is examined through several interrelated subjects : long-term care at the end of life , gendered characteristics of care giving , the limitations of Medicare and Medicaid , historical changes in hospital le
background	The analysis is based on examples of stroke and incontinence care to demonstrate the importance of considering place and space issues in health care planning .

###12231567
background	Obesity is associated with increased morbidity and mortality from atherosclerotic disease .
background	Lipid abnormalities contribute to the increased relative risk in obese subjects .
background	Cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) mass is increased in these patients and might mediate the atherogenic lipoprotein pattern observed in obesity .
population	Twenty-one morbidly obese , middle-aged , female subjects participated in this prospective study .
intervention	Subjects were examined before and 1 year after surgical treatment .
other	Fat mass was determined by body impedance analysis ; CETP mass , by ELISA ; CETP activity , by exogenous substrate assay ; and LDL particle diameter , by gradient gel electrophoresis .
outcome	Mean weight loss after 1 year was 28.7 kg ; mean fat mass loss was 22.6 kg .
outcome	Mean CETP mass decreased from 1.81 to 1.32 microg/mL ( P = 0.008 ) ; mean CETP activity decreased from 244 to 184 nmol x mL ( -1 ) x h ( -1 ) ( P = 0.004 ) ; and in parallel , the mean diameter of LDL particles increased ( 256.8 to 258.4 A , P = 0.04 ) .
outcome	We conclude that weight loss is associated with a pronounced decrease in CETP mass and activity and a consistent increase in LDL particle diameter .
outcome	After 1 year of this prospective study in morbidly obese subjects undergoing weight loss by surgical treatment , it has been determined that some features of the atherogenic lipoprotein profile can be reversed .

###16765483
background	This article describes the effect of introducing a cohort area into a vascular surgery ward where a sustained increase in new cases of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) made the implementation of standard MRSA infection control precautions
background	A recent review of published reports concluded , ` that little evidence could be found to suggest that isolation measures recommended in the UK are effective ' .
background	The authors recommended a reporting format to enable the evidence for isolation to be gathered more systematically .
other	This paper follows the recommended reporting format .
outcome	The setting was a 30-bedded acute and subacute vascular surgery ward within a tertiary care hospital in Glasgow , UK .
outcome	The data were analysed as an interrupted time series of 19 months pre-cohort , eight months with cohort and eight months post cohort .
outcome	Following the instigation of the cohort area , there was a significant reduction in the number of nosocomial MRSA isolates from patients ( P = 0.0005 ) .
outcome	This reduction was sustained after the cohort area was discontinued .
outcome	In conclusion , effective separation of MRSA-colonized / - infected patients from patients who are not colonized/infected with MRSA , using a cohort area , resulted in a significant reduction in MRSA cross-colonization and cross-infection .
outcome	The resulting reduction in MRSA prevalence within the unit facilitated effective screening and isolation of subsequent patients once the cohort area had been discontinued .

###16091504
background	Previous studies have retrospectively reported the positive effects of percutaneous vertebroplasty .
background	The purpose of our study was to evaluate prospectively the effects of vertebroplasty on mobility , analgesic use , pain , and SF-36 ( short-form 36-item ) scales for patients with painful vertebral compression fractures that are refractory to medical therapy .
population	We prospectively followed 167 patients who received 207 vertebroplasty treatment sessions for stabilization of 264 symptomatic vertebral compression fractures between August 1999 and January 2003 .
other	The average age of patients was 74.6 years ( SD = 12.2 years ) , and 76 % were women .
other	Pre - and postprocedural measurements of pain , mobility , analgesic use , and SF-36 scales were compared at 1 month after the procedure and between 6 months and 3 years after the procedure with the SF-36 scales .
outcome	Respective pre - and post-treatment pain scores were 8.71 ( SE = 0.1 ) and 2.77 ( SE = 0.18 ; P < .00001 ) .
outcome	Respective pre - and post-treatment analgesic use scores were 2.93 ( SE = 0.9 ) and 1.64 ( SE = 0.09 ; P < .00001 ) .
outcome	Respective pre - and post-treatment activity levels were 2.66 ( SE = 0.1 ) and 1.64 ( SE = 0.11 ; P < .00001 ) .
outcome	There was a statistically significant improvement on nine of 10 SF-36 scales ( P < .001 ) after 1 month and on eight of 10 SF-36 scales ( P < .02 ) at long-term follow-up .
outcome	Percutaneous vertebroplasty offers statistically significant benefits in decreasing pain , decreasing use of analgesics , and increasing mobility in appropriately selected patients .
outcome	Percutaneous vertebroplasty also offers a statistically significant benefit in most SF-36 scales at both short - and long-term follow-up .

###12601656
background	To identify factors associated with specific categories of charges during acute inpatient rehabilitation treatment after traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
study design	Prospective observational study .
other	A single Traumatic Brain Injury Model Systems ( TBIMS ) center .
population	Eighty-four consecutive TBIMS patients .
other	One exploratory analysis also included all 350 patients with TBI admitted during 1999 .
other	Not applicable .
other	Average daily charges for specific categories of resource use ( eg , room and board , rehabilitation therapies , functional labs ) .
outcome	Room and board and rehabilitation therapy accounted for almost 90 % of average daily charges .
outcome	There was no linear component of change in average daily charges , but certain categories of charges were significantly higher during the first week than thereafter .
outcome	Functional status at rehabilitation admission correlated with charges for respiratory , medical , and surgical supplies and with pharmacy and radiology , but not the other categories .
outcome	Specific medical variables also correlated with specific charge categories .
outcome	Focused chart reviews of patients with low and high charges in specific categories led to the formulation of additional predictive hypotheses .
outcome	Certain categories of charges correlated with functional scores and acute medical variables that are known before admission to acute inpatient rehabilitation , allowing for better inpatient admission planning under prospective payment .
outcome	Further research is needed to identify and correlate resource use that is bundled within the room and board category .

###18231079
background	To document the absenteeism costs associated with obesity and morbid obesity by occupation .
other	Data from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey for 2000-2004 are examined .
other	The outcomes are probability of missing any work in the previous year and number of days of work missed in the previous year .
other	Predictors include clinical weight classification , age , education , and race .
other	Models are estimated separately by gender and occupation category .
outcome	The probability of missing work in the past year , number of days missed , and costs of absenteeism rise with clinical weight classification for both women and men , and vary across occupation .
outcome	Absenteeism costs associated with obesity total $ 4.3 billion annually in the United States .
outcome	Substantial absenteeism costs are associated with obesity and morbid obesity .
outcome	Employers should explore workplace interventions and health insurance expansions to reduce these costs .

###16021360
background	Whereas the effect of interferons ( IFNs ) on magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) outcome measures in patients with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) has been convincingly shown , little work has been done to define the between-patient heterogeneity of treatment response
population	Our aim was to assess the distribution of the effect of IFNbeta-1b in terms of reduction of active T2 lesions in patients with MS.
intervention	Using a fixed and a random effects model , we investigated the distribution of active T2 lesions reduction over a three-year follow up in response to treatment with 250 mcg IFNbeta-1b every other day in 695 patients with a complete MRI data-set of the 718
outcome	The two statistical models consistently showed that the between-patient response to IFNbeta-1b , in terms of reduction of active T2 lesions , is highly heterogeneous .
outcome	Whereas treated patients have a high probability ( more than 65 % ) of showing an active T2 lesion reduction equal to or greater than 60 % , there is also a 7 % probability for treated patients not to show any reduction of MRI-detected disease activity during t
outcome	This study might be regarded as a first step toward the definition of markers potentially useful to identify IFNbeta treatment responders and non-responders with regard to T2 lesion activity .

###12356708
background	Community pharmacists have increasing involvement in the self-management of minor illness as a result of the availability of a wider range of over-the-counter ( OTC ) medicines .
other	We undertook a randomized controlled trial ( RCT ) to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of educational strategies to implement evidence-based guidelines for the sale of OTC anti-fungals in the community pharmacy setting .
other	The aim of the study was to compare the effectiveness and efficiency of two guideline dissemination strategies in community pharmacy settings .
population	A 2 x 2 factorial , cluster RCT was conducted with 60 community pharmacies in the Grampian region of Scotland .
intervention	The interventions included dissemination of an evidence-based guideline for OTC management of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( thrush ) by postal dissemination ( control ) , educational outreach visit or attendance at a continuing professional education session .
other	Pre - and post-intervention simulated patient visits were made to participating pharmacies .
other	The simulated patients completed assessment forms following each visit .
other	The primary outcome was the appropriateness ( based upon the guidelines ) of sale or no sale of OTC anti-fungals .
outcome	There were no significant differences in the proportion of appropriate outcomes following educational outreach [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 1.1 ; 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.52 to 2.45 ] or continuing professional education ( OR = 0.88 ; 95 % CI 0.41 to 1.91 ) .
outcome	Neither strategy was effective in improving the appropriateness of OTC management of vulvovaginal candidiasis by community pharmacy staff .
outcome	Further research is needed to identify barriers to guideline implementation and evidence-based practice in this setting .

###11208947
background	The importance of maternal dietary fatty acids on arachidonic acid [ AA ; 20:4 ( n-6 ) ] and docosahexaenoic acid [ DHA ; 22:6 ( n-3 ) ] in fetal brain nerve growth cone membranes and monoaminergic neurotransmitters was investigated .
population	Rats were fed purified diets containing 20 g/100 g safflower oil with 74.3 % 18:2 ( n-6 ) , 0.2 % 18:3 ( n-3 ) , soybean oil with 55.4 % 18:2 ( n-6 ) , 7.7 % 18:3 ( n-3 ) or high fish oil with 24.6 % 22:6 ( n-3 ) through gestation .
other	Tissue for rats within a litter were pooled at birth , brain growth cone membranes prepared and phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , phosphatidylserine ( PS ) , phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) and phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) fatty acids quantified by gas-liquid chromatography .
other	Dopamine , serotonin , and the metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid , and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid were quantified by HPLC .
outcome	Growth cone membranes from offspring of rats fed safflower oil had significantly lower , and offspring of rats fed high 22:6 ( n-3 ) fish oil had significantly higher 22:6 ( n-3 ) in PE , PS and PI than the soybean oil group .
outcome	The growth cone membrane PC , PE and PS 20:4 ( n-6 ) was significantly lower in the fish oil than in the soybean or safflower oil groups .
outcome	Serotonin concentration was significantly higher in brain of offspring in the safflower oil compared with the soybean oil group .
outcome	The newborn brain dopamine was inversely related to PE DHA and PS DHA ( P < 0.001 ) , but positively related to PC AA ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	These studies show that maternal dietary fatty acids may alter fetal brain growth cone ( n-6 ) and ( n-3 ) fatty acids , and neurotransmitters involved in neurite extension , target finding and synaptogenesis .
outcome	The functional importance , however , is not known at this time .

###17303529
background	Adjunctive dexamethasone increases survival from tuberculous meningitis , but the underlying mechanism is unclear .
background	We aimed to determine the effect of dexamethasone on cerebral MRI changes and their association with intracerebral inflammatory responses and clinical outcome in adults treated for tuberculous meningitis .
population	Cerebral MRI was undertaken , when possible , at diagnosis and after 60 days and 270 days of treatment in adults with tuberculous meningitis admitted to two hospitals in Vietnam .
intervention	Patients were randomly assigned either dexamethasone ( n = 24 ) or placebo ( n = 19 ) and received 9 months of treatment with standard first-line antituberculosis drugs .
other	We assessed associations between MRI findings , treatment allocation , and resolution of fever , coma , cerebrospinal fluid inflammation , and neurological outcome .
outcome	83 scans were done for 43 patients : 19 given placebo , 24 given dexamethasone .
outcome	Basal meningeal enhancement ( 82 % ) and hydrocephalus ( 77 % ) were the most common presenting findings .
outcome	Fewer patients had hydrocephalus after 60 days of treatment with dexamethasone than after placebo treatment ( p = 0.217 ) .
outcome	Tuberculomas developed in 74 % of patients during treatment and in equal proportions in the treatment groups ; they were associated with long-term fever , but not relapse or poor clinical outcome .
outcome	The basal ganglia were the most common site of infarction ; the proportion with infarction after 60 days was halved in the dexamethasone group ( 27 % vs 58 % , p = 0.130 ) .
outcome	Dexamethasone may affect outcome from tuberculous meningitis by reducing hydrocephalus and preventing infarction .
outcome	The effect may have been under-estimated because the most severe patients could not be scanned .

###12322634
background	On April 12 , 2000 , the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy ( CRLP ) , the Center for Justice and International Law and three Latin American women 's rights organizations filed a petition to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights alleging human right
background	The petition alleges violations of the woman 's right to informed consent to medical treatment , as well as the rights to life , health , privacy and nondiscrimination .
background	The initial petition was filed in 1999 following the death of a Peruvian woman from a rural area who underwent a sterilization procedure at a public health clinic .
background	The woman agreed to a sterilization after being told that she was violating a national limit on family size by having more than 5 children and was at risk for prosecution by the government .
background	The woman eventually died from complications and lack of proper treatment .
background	Staff attorney Luisa Cabal is representing CRLP as a co-petitioner , with the assistance of fellow attorney Carla Avni.americasdelivery of health caredeveloping countrieshealthhealth serviceshuman rights -- womeninterest groupslatin americalitigationperupoli

###6724012
population	Twenty infertile women with a history of diethylstilbestrol exposure in utero were seen in Norfolk for the purpose of in vitro fertilization .
background	Seventeen patients had undergone 25 stimulated cycles with harvest of oocytes by laparoscopy .
other	The serum estradiol response to stimulation in these patients and the number and quality of oocytes retrieved did not differ significantly from those of patients with infertility due to blocked fallopian tubes .
outcome	There were four pregnancies in 17 patients after 21 cycles of embryo transfers , for a pregnancy rate of 23.5 % per patient , or 19 % per embryo transfer .
outcome	Two of the pregnant patients have had a term delivery , one has had a preclinical abortion , and one has a single intrauterine gestation in progress .

###15478578
background	Patients with cancer who have bone metastases may live for several years following diagnosis .
background	However , skeletal disease significantly impacts quality of life , causing bone pain , pathologic fractures , spinal cord compression , and hypercalcemia .
background	This program covered the challenges of treatment , new standards of care , advances in nursing , responsibilities in supportive care , and current trials investigating options for treatment-induced bone loss .
background	The program ended with a call to nurses to become more active as patient advocates .

###8594964
background	Neoplastic or traumatic lesions of the brain stem or the upper spinal cord frequently cause respiratory insufficiency necessitating permanent mechanical ventilation .
background	If the integrity of the diaphragm and its nerves is not affected , adequate ventilation can be achieved by electric stimulation of the phrenic nerves .
background	Diaphragm pacing systems mean the patients can be independent of ventilator treatment .
background	This is a psychological advantage for the patient , giving him or her the option of living in less specialized medical care units and perhaps even at home .
population	We report the case of a 47-year-old man with a brain stem tumour , which was resected in large pieces .
other	During the postoperative period an increasingly severe respiratory insufficiency developed , which finally made continuous mechanical ventilation necessary .
other	After the viability of the phrenic nerves and contractility of the diaphragm had been shown by direct stimulation of the nerves to be still intact , it was decided that a diaphragm pacer system should be implanted .
intervention	A `` Diaphragm Pacer System S232 G '' ( Avery Laboratories , Glen Cove , N.Y. , USA : external transmitter , antenna , implanted electrode and receiver ) was implanted .
intervention	Using a supraclavicular approach , phrenic nerve electrodes were placed around each nerve and connected with subcutaneous implants of radio signal receivers .
other	Six days after implantation phrenic nerves were stimulated for a first short period .
other	External antenna loops were taped to the skin over the implanted receiver sites ( Fig. 3 ) .
outcome	The impulses produced by the transmitter were delivered via these antenna loops and led to contraction of the diaphragm , providing almost normal respiration .
outcome	The duration of stimulation was increased stepwise from 1 h a day to full-time stimulation .
outcome	Three weeks after implantation of the diaphragm pacer system the patient could be totally weaned from mechanical ventilation .
outcome	After a further 2 weeks it was possible to discharge him from the intensive care unit , and he was then transferred to a rehabilitation centre .

###15784817
background	Ovarian damage following cancer therapy is dependent on age at treatment as well as the type of therapeutic exposures .
background	Older age and exposure to higher doses of alkylating agents and higher doses of radiation to the ovary are associated with a greater likelihood of ovarian failure .
background	Acute loss of ovarian function during or shortly following treatment is relatively uncommon in females treated during childhood and adolescence but can be seen following myeloablative , alkylator-based cytoreduction ( e.g. , busulfan and cyclophosphamide ) fo
outcome	For survivors who retain normal ovarian function after cancer therapy , there is an increased risk of premature menopause later in life .
outcome	The risk factors associated with an early menopause include exposure to high doses of alkylating agents and abdomino-pelvic radiation .

###2389151
population	Family stress , family and personal resources , and parental coping were operationalized from self-report questionnaires completed by mothers and fathers in 72 two-parent families who had a child with cystic fibrosis ( CF ) .
outcome	Three-month and 15-month changes in clinically recorded measures of the CF child 's height and weight data and pulmonary functioning were correlated with the family functioning variables .
outcome	Each of the four criterion indices of CF child health changes were regressed separately on the significant family functioning variables .
outcome	Twenty-two percent of the variance in 15-month height and weight changes were explained by family stress , family resources , and parental coping .
outcome	Family functioning variables also explained 17 % of the variance in 3-month pulmonary functioning changes and 15 % of the variance in 3-month height and weight changes .
outcome	These findings suggest that the way in which the family functions has indirect effects on critical indices of a CF child 's health .
outcome	These data lend support to an increased focus by physicians and other medical professionals on the health of the total family system as a way to enhance outcomes for children with CF.

###3388114
population	Sixteen patients were treated with a new anterior internal fixation device after thoracolumbar or lumbar decompression , and fusion with bone grafting .
outcome	Ten patients had acute burst fractures , four had metastatic tumors , and two had old , healed fractures with deformity .
outcome	In the acute fracture group , eight patients had neurologic deficits and seven patients experienced improvement .
outcome	Six patients had lesions of the conus medullaris , all of which improved .
outcome	The four patients with metastatic tumors underwent surgery for back and leg pain and all gained significant relief .
outcome	Two patients had correction of old fracture deformity with satisfactory outcome .
outcome	Complications were minimal .
outcome	The new anterior stabilization device provided early stability , allowed early patient mobilization , was easy to insert , and has a low profile .
outcome	Late collapse , non-union , and kyphotic deformity have not been noted thusfar .

###6829452
background	Tricyclic antidepressant drugs such as imipramine and desipramine have long been known to produce cardiovascular side effects including sinus tachycardia , prolongation of the P-R , QRS , and Q-T intervals , and decreased T-wave amplitude .
background	Life-threatening ventricular ectopic activity has occurred after tricyclic drug overdose .
background	Recently , maprotiline ( Ludiomil ) , a tetracyclic anthracene-derivative antidepressant , has become available for the treatment of affective disorders .
background	It appears as effective as the tricyclic drugs in relieving unipolar depression .
background	Although several studies have reported a low incidence of cardiovascular side effects , others show little difference between the tetracyclic and tricyclic drugs .
outcome	This report describes a patient in whom maprotiline treatment caused Q-T prolongation and life-threatening torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia ( VT ) .

###15022947
background	The incidence of cancer increases exponentially with age and a large number of cancer patients are the older members of society .
background	In many developing and some developed countries , the disease is usually detected at a stage when it is too late for aggressive anticancer therapy to have the desired effect .
background	Most cancer patients suffer moderate to severe pain during the terminal phase of the disease .
background	This pain is unpredictable and produces fear and anxiety in patients and family members .
background	Morphine is the gold standard analgesic to control this pain , but its availability is restricted .
background	The fear of diversion of morphine for non-medical uses has led to severe control on its availability .
background	Studies have shown that diversion of medical morphine is not really an issue .
background	This paper describes attempts to increase morphine availability through the courts in India .
background	The courts have issued directives to improve the availability of the drug , yet 97 % of Indian patients have very poor access to the drug .
background	There is a need to improve access to pain-free end-of-life care .
background	In the absence of morphine , physicians lack experience in its use .
background	They need to be educated to provide for their patients a pain-free life .
background	Patients and their families need to be educated that cancer need not end in a painful death .

###14517577
background	The red flags raised by the 1990 clinical reports of increased suicidality associated with treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) fluoxetine were followed by anecdotal reports of similar symptoms with other antidepressants of the
background	Recent discussions by Healy have argued in favour of a suicidogenic potential of the SSRIs .
background	This paper reviews the relevant literature addressing the epidemiological data of Western populations and the data accumulated from clinical trial databases in several countries .
outcome	The evidence currently available does not support the hypothesis that antidepressants or , more specifically , SSRIs cause increased suicidality in patients with depression , nor do they appear to do so in patients treated with these drugs for other reasons .

###15655637
background	In locally advanced colorectal cancer , combined modality treatment is a standard adjuvant therapy in USA and Europe .
intervention	The basic issue of the timing of radiotherapy and chemotherapy and preoperative radio-chemotherapy versus postoperative radio-chemotherapy is being addressed in prospective trials .
outcome	Preoperative radiotherapy proved that causes more radiosensitivity due to that oxygen tension within the tumour may be higher prior to surgery .
outcome	Technically , there are two approaches of preoperative radiotherapy .
outcome	The aim of this article is to report the inclusion criteria , indications , advantages and results of short course preoperative radiotherapy .

###1627632
outcome	When male weanling rats were fed diets containing either 5 % corn oil or a diet in which half of the corn oil was replaced by fish oil , the 20:5 ( n - 3 ) in liver choline and ethanolamine phosphoglycerides , not only partially replaced arachidonate but also p
outcome	The 22:5 ( n - 3 ) / 22:6 ( n - 3 ) ratio in the liver phospholipids of corn oil fed rats was similar to that found when the esterified levels of these two acids were increased 5-fold by feeding fish oil .
outcome	Moreover , the pairing of both 22:5 ( n - 3 ) and 22:6 ( n - 3 ) with palmitic and stearic acids , on a molar ratio basis , was relatively independent of the total amount of esterified 22:5 ( n - 3 ) and 22:6 ( n - 3 ) .
outcome	When ( 3-14C ) - labeled 22:4 ( n - 6 ) was injected into rats raised on a chow diet or incubated with hepatocytes from these animals , its primary metabolic fate was retroconversion to arachidonate followed by esterification .
outcome	Conversely , [ 3-14C ] 22:5 ( n - 3 ) was a poorer substrate for retroconversion with a larger amount being esterified directly into phospholipids and , in addition , this acid served as a precursor for 22:6 ( n - 3 ) .
outcome	The enhanced metabolism of both [ 3-14C ] 22:4 ( n - 6 ) to 22:5 ( n - 6 ) and of [ 3-14C ] 22:5 ( n - 3 ) to 22:6 ( n - 3 ) in animals raised on a diet devoid of fat or in their hepatocytes may possibly be due to elevated 6-desaturase activity and/or the level of this enz
outcome	This hypothesis is based on studies showing that the synthesis of 22:6 ( n - 3 ) proceeds via a pathway independent of a 4-desaturase but requires the use of a 6-desaturase at two steps ( Voss , A. , Reinhart , M. , Sankarappa , S. and Sprecher , H. ( 1991 ) J. Biol .

###11441627
background	Inadequate pain control is a dismaying reality in cancer patients .
population	To review studies on cancer pain control interventions , and describe their findings with respect to participants ' attitudes and knowledge , pain management , and pain levels .
other	Computer searches were made in MEDLINE from January 1962 , in PsychLIT from January 1974 , and in CINAHL from January 1982 to August 1999 , using a search strategy based on a combination of key words .
other	Computerized listings from these sources contained 383 , 26 , and 85 articles , respectively .
other	After exclusion of duplicates , abstracts , editorials , letters , and irrelevant articles , we retained for review 33 articles , of which 25 ( 76 % ) were interventions targeting health professionals , and 8 ( 24 % ) interventions targeting patients and family caregivers .
other	Study reports were reviewed using the following structured framework
other	Intervention Setting , Study Methods , Process Assessment , and Pain Outcome Assessment ( Attitudes and Knowledge , Pain Management , and Pain Relief/Quality of Life ) .
outcome	Educational interventions can successfully improve cancer pain knowledge and attitudes of health care professionals , but without having much impact on patients ' pain levels .
outcome	The most promising avenue for improving cancer pain control in ambulatory settings may be brief , nursing interventions targeting patients in combination with a daily pain diary .
outcome	This review suggests that further progress may occur through incorporating a systematic and valid method of documenting daily fluctuation in pain levels , and ensuring that documented uncontrolled pain is followed rapidly by clinical reassessment and dose

###16219327
background	Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases , such as Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
background	There are several methods to measure oxidative stress , being lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) one of the most frequently used .
population	Endogenous plasma LPO was determined by a spectrofluorimetric method in fifty two patients with sporadic PD and in forty controls .
other	To know the maximum capacity of lipids to peroxidate , LPO was also measured after co-incubation with Fe2 + / H2O2 ( exogenous LPO ) .
intervention	All PD patients were taken L-dopa and the effect of this treatment on LPO levels was additionally studied .
other	Urine catecholamines and their main metabolites were also analyzed , and their possible correlation to LPO statistically studied .
outcome	Endogenous plasma LPO levels were 33 % higher in PD group than in control group ( P < 0.001 ) .
outcome	Exogenous plasma or oxidizability was also higher in PD patients compared to controls ( 20 % , P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	The intake of L-dopa was negatively dose-related to endogenous and exogenous plasma LPO .
outcome	In conclusion , plasma of PD patients has elevated levels of LPO and also is more prone to peroxidation than that in the control group .
outcome	The results also suggest an antioxidant effect of L-dopa .

###12816554
background	To determine the carriage rate of Staphylococcus aureus ( SA ) , both methicillin sensitive , and methicillin resistant ( MRSA ) , among employees of a nursing home in the absence of an epidemic .
study design	Observational study .
other	A 210-bed suburban skilled nursing facility with a low endemic rate of SA infection .
population	Seventy-three asymptomatic employees recruited in two waves .
other	Nasal swabs were cultured for SA ; DNA strain typing was performed on MRSA isolates from the first wave of recruits .
outcome	21 of 73 ( 29 % ) cultures were positive for SA .
outcome	Ten of these 21 ( 14 % of participating employees ) had nasal carriage of MRSA .
outcome	MRSA carriage was not significantly correlated with age , duration of employment , or job type ( clinical vs. non-clinical ) , and DNA strain typing suggested that employee carriage of MRSA was not the result of a common source .
outcome	Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage is common among skilled nursing facility personnel , and MRSA accounts for a substantial proportion of SA carriage among employees , even in the absence of an epidemic .
outcome	Further research is needed to determine whether the high SA carriage rates among employees reflects work place acquisition , and , if so , whether it poses a hazard to the employees .
outcome	The low incidence of nosocomial MRSA infections around the time of the study suggests that with usual infection control practices ( eg , hand washing ) , MRSA-colonized caregivers pose little risk to nursing facility residents .

###12137645
background	Enuresis ( bedwetting ) is a socially disruptive and stressful condition which affects around 15-20 % of five year olds , and up to 2 % of young adults .
background	To assess the effects of desmopressin on nocturnal enuresis in children , and to compare desmopressin with other interventions .
other	We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Group trials register .
other	Date of the most recent search March 2002 .
other	The reference list of a previous version of this review was also searched .
population	All randomised trials of desmopressin for nocturnal enuresis in children were included in the review .
intervention	Comparison interventions included placebo , other drugs , alarms or behavioural methods .
other	Trials focused solely on daytime wetting were excluded .
other	Two reviewers independently assessed the quality of the eligible trials , and extracted data .
outcome	Forty one randomised trials involving 2760 children ( of whom 1813 received desmopressin ) met the inclusion criteria .
outcome	The quality of many of the trials was poor .
outcome	Desmopressin was compared with another drug in four trials , and with alarms in seven .
other	Desmopressin was effective in reducing bedwetting in a variety of doses and forms .
outcome	Each dose of desmopressin reduced bedwetting by at least one night per week during treatment compared with placebo ( e.g. 20 microg : 1.34 fewer wet nights per week , 95 % CI 1.11 to 1.57 ) .
other	Children on desmopressin were more likely to become dry ( e.g. RR for failure to achieve 14 dry nights with 20 mcg 0.84 , 95 % CI 0.79 to 0.91 ) .
other	However , there was no difference after treatment was finished .
outcome	There was no clear dose-related effect of desmopressin , but the evidence was limited .
outcome	Data which compared oral and nasal administration were too few to be conclusive .
outcome	While desmopressin was better than diclofenac or indomethacin , and comparison with tricyclic drugs ( amitriptyline and imipramine ) suggested that they might be as effective as desmopressin , the data were inconclusive due to small numbers .
outcome	There were more side effects with the tricyclics .
outcome	In one small trial , desmopressin resulted in more wet nights than alarms towards the end of treatment ( WMD 1.4 , 95 % CI : 0.14 to 2.66 ) and the chance of failure or relapse after alarms was less ( RR 9.17 , 95 % CI 1.28 to 65.90 ) .
outcome	Although there were fewer wet nights during alarm treatment supplemented by desmopressin compared with alarms alone ( WMD -1.35 , 95 % CI -2.32 to -0.38 ) , the data are inconclusive about whether this is reflected in lower failure ( RR 0.88 , 95 % CI 0.52 to 1.50
outcome	Desmopressin rapidly reduced the number of wet nights per week , but there was some evidence that this was not sustained after treatment stopped .
outcome	Comparison with alternative treatments suggested that desmopressin and tricyclics had similar clinical effects , but that alarms may produce more sustained benefits .
outcome	However , based on the available limited evidence , these conclusions can only be tentative .
outcome	Children should be advised not to drink more than 240 ml ( 8 oz ) fluid during desmopressin treatment in order to avoid the possible risk of water intoxication .

###16437475
background	Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a cholestatic disease .
background	D-penicillamine is suggested as a treatment option due to its copper reducing and immunomodulatory potential .
population	To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of D-penicillamine for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis .
other	Eligible trials were identified through searches of The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register ( August 2005 ) , The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials in The Cochrane Library ( Issue 3 , 2005 ) , MEDLINE ( 1950 to August 2005 ) , EMBASE ( 1980 to August 2005 ) , Science Citation Index EXPANDED ( 1945 to August 2005 ) , and reference lists of relevant articles .
other	Authors of trials and pharmaceutical companies known to produce D-penicillamine were also contacted .
other	Randomised clinical trials comparing D-penicillamine in any dose , duration , and route of administration versus placebo , no intervention , or other intervention ( s ) .
other	Trials were included irrespective of publication status , year of publication , language , or blinding .
other	Both authors selected the trials , extracted data , and evaluated the methodological quality of the trials with respect to the generation of allocation sequence , allocation concealment , blinding , and follow-up .
other	The results were reported by intention-to-treat analysis .
other	The outcomes were presented as relative risk ( RR ) or weighted mean difference ( WMD ) , both with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) .
other	One randomised trial was identified and included in the review .
other	It was of low methodological quality .
other	The trial compared D-penicillamine versus placebo in 70 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis .
outcome	Compared with placebo , D-penicillamine therapy had no significant effect on mortality ( RR 1.14 , 95 % CI 0.49 to 2.64 ) , liver transplantation ( RR 1.11 , 95 % CI 0.39 to 3.17 ) , hepatic histologic progression ( RR 1.17 , 95 % CI 0.79 to 1.74 ) , or cholangiographic
outcome	D-penicillamine led to a significant improvement in the serum aspartate aminotransferase ( WMD -23.00 U/L ; 95 % CI -30.66 to -15.34 ) , but not in serum bilirubin level ( WMD 0.40 mg/L ; 95 % CI -0.19 to 0.99 ) and serum alkaline phosphatases activity ( WMD 44.00
outcome	There were significantly more adverse events in patients receiving D-penicillamine ( P = 0.013 ) .
outcome	There is not sufficient evidence to support or refute the use of D-penicillamine for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis .
outcome	We do not recommend the use of D-penicillamine for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis outside randomised trials .

###16614019
background	Despite the high lifetime prevalence of depression in multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , its longitudinal course is poorly understood .
intervention	To examine the longitudinal course of and reliable change in different depression symptom clusters in MS , and the longitudinal association of interferon beta treatment and coping with depression symptoms .
population	53 MS patients were examined at two time points three years apart on the Beck Depression Inventory ( BDI ) and the Chicago Multiscale Depression Inventory ( CMDI ) .
outcome	Correlations from time 1 to time 2 for BDI , CMDI-total , CMDI-evaluative scale , and CMDI-vegetative scale were all highly significant , and reliable change indices reflected little change over time .
outcome	In contrast , the correlation over time for the CMDI-mood scale was significantly lower ( p < 0.05 ) than the CMDI-evaluative and CMDI-vegetative scale correlations , and over 40 % of patients showed reliable change .
outcome	Patients who improved in their mood showed increased use of active coping , while patients who worsened showed decreased active coping strategies ; the latter were also significantly more likely to have been taking interferon beta drugs at both time points
outcome	Mood symptoms of depression are significantly more variable over time than neurovegetative or negative evaluative symptoms in MS patients .
outcome	Decreased use of active coping strategies may put patients at risk of increased depressed mood , whereas increased use of active coping may result in decreased depressed mood longitudinally .
outcome	Interferon beta use may put patients at risk of increases in depressed mood .

###11313090
background	Depression is the most prevalent psychiatric disorder in the elderly and several studies indicate that 10-15 % of persons over 65 years suffer from significant depressive symptoms .
background	Despite the high prevalence , most cases of depression in the elderly remain unrecognized and untreated , maybe because of a different pattern of symptoms across age groups .
other	The objective of the study was to compare symptomatology and diagnostic profile between younger and elderly DSM-III and DSM-III-R major depressed inpatients and to advise an appropriate depression scale for the elderly .
population	The study covers 461 depressed inpatients evaluated with the Hamilton Depression Scale and the Newcastle 1965 Scale .
other	To find differences between younger and elderly patients , the symptomatology was analyzed stepwise by principal component analyses , latent structure analyses and single item analyses .
outcome	No clinically significant differences in symptomatology between younger and elderly depressed patients were found .
outcome	The DSM-IV concept of Major Depression and the ICD-10 criteria for depression was not influenced by patients ' age .
outcome	All patients were hospitalized and mainly endogenously depressed and generalization of the results to other populations should be made with caution .
outcome	Only pretreatment data was analyzed .
outcome	The DSM-IV concept of Major Depression and the ICD-10 criteria for depression can be used without modification for age .

###17297205
background	To investigate the acute results ( parameters at implant and clinical parameters ) of permanent pacemaker implantation at our institution .
population	Twenty five patients undergoing pacemaker implantation were included in this study .
other	Subjects underwent medical history and functional class was assessed using New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) classification .
other	All technical parameters ( pacing threshold , sensing , and pacing impedance ) and clinical parameters ( complication and procedure time ) were measured during and post implant .
outcome	Majority ( 80 % ) of patients were in NYHA functional class II .
outcome	The commonest indication for pacemaker implant was the complete heart block ( 56 % ) .
outcome	The most frequent pacemaker type was single chamber ( 80 % ) with the commonest pacing mode of VVIR ( 72 % ) .
outcome	Average optimal parameters achieved were pacing threshold of 0.5 volt , sensing of 12.6 mV , and impedance of 829 Ohm .
outcome	Average procedure time was 1.6 hour .
outcome	Major complication ( pocket infection ) was noted in only one patient .
outcome	It is confirmed from this study that permanent pacemaker implantation could be carried out safely and effectively with low complication rate in a general hospital .
outcome	Optimal pacing parameters could be achieved in the acute phase .
outcome	Most patients still could not afford appropriate pacing devices due to limited financial support .
outcome	Government insurance coverage for the poor should be encouraged to cover more people .

###9044514
background	Following spinal cord injury ( SCI ) , upper motor neuron paralysed muscles lose the normal type I ( slow ) and II ( fast ) fibre mosaic pattern and become predominantly composed of type II ( fast glycolytic ) fibres ) .
background	The majority of the research demonstrating this fibre type shift was based on pH sensitive myofibrillar ATPase staining techniques on muscle from longstanding paraplegics and quadriplegics .
background	The purpose of this study was to describe muscle fibre type changes over a wide time spectrum post SCI using immunofluorescent techniques which may be more sensitive to change .
population	A total of 19 vastus lateralis muscle biopsy specimens were obtained from 12 SCI subjects representing time points of 0.5-219 months post SCI .
other	Fast and slow myosin heavy chain isoform distribution was determined on single muscle fibres for each of the biopsy specimens .
outcome	Early post SCI ( < 1 month ) myosin heavy chain ( MCH ) isoform composition remained relatively stable .
outcome	A transitional period was seen between 1 and 20 months post SCI wherein there was a progressive drop in the proportion of slow MHC isoform fibres and a rise in the proportion that co-expressed both the fast and slow MHC isoform .
outcome	By approximately 70 months post SCI a new steady state had been reached characterized by almost exclusively fast MHC isoform expression .
outcome	This research has demonstrated that post SCI muscle type II transformation occurs in stages and commences earlier than previously appreciated .
outcome	Interventions aimed at preventing or minimizing the transformation would need to be instituted within weeks post SCI .

###9839825
background	Central pain following spinal cord injury is poorly understood , and is often resistant to conventional pain therapy regimens .
background	We describe an individual with paraplegia who for many years experienced rapidly fluctuating , severe , unilateral pain below the level of his lesion .
background	Prior to the initiation of pharmacological treatment , regional cerebral blood flow ( rCBF ) was measured during PAIN and NON-PAIN states using single photon emission computed tomography ( SPECT ) .
background	When experiencing pain , the subject had increased anterior cingulate gyrus blood flow , increased thalamic blood flow bilaterally and increased somatosensory cortex blood flow contralaterally but decreased caudate blood flow bilaterally .
outcome	The subject 's subsequent clinical course included a trial of gabapentin which produced a substantial reduction in frequency and average intensity of his episodic pain and which has been maintained for almost 2 years .
outcome	This case demonstrates the correspondence between rCBF and pain associated with spinal cord injury and also suggests the potential utility of gabapentin for treatment of this central pain state .

###9702884
background	The objective of this study was to demonstrate 1H MR spectroscopy ( MRS ) changes in cerebral metabolites after acute head trauma .
population	Twenty-five patients ( 12 children , 13 adults ) were examined with quantitative 1H MRS after closed head injury .
outcome	Clinical grade ( Glasgow Coma Scale [ GCS ] ) and outcome ( Rancho Los Amigos Medical Center Outcome Score [ ROS ] ) were correlated with quantitative neurochemical findings .
outcome	N-acetylaspartate ( NAA ) , a neuronal and axonal marker , was reduced ( P < .03 -.001 ) .
outcome	In children , a reduced NAA/creatine plus phosphocreatine ( Cr ) level and the presence of detectable lipid/lactate predicted bad outcome ( sensitivity , 89 % ; specificity , 89 % ) .
outcome	The first MRS examination of all patients correlated with ROS versus NAA ( r = .65 , P < .0001 ) .
outcome	Although most patients showed MRS abnormalities , striking heterogeneity of 1H MRS characterized the individual patients .
outcome	1H MRS identifies multiple patterns of diffuse brain injury after blunt head trauma .
outcome	There was a strong correlation between MRS and outcome .
outcome	Future prospective studies will be needed to determine the clinical usefulness of MRS in predicting outcome from closed head injury .

###15252824
background	The stimulant modafinil has proved to be an effective treatment modality for narcolepsy and related sleep disorders and is also being studied for use during sustained military operations to ameliorate the effects of fatigue due to sleep loss .
background	However , a previous study reported that a relatively large , single dose of modafinil ( 300 mg ) , administered to already sleep-deprived individuals , caused participants to overestimate their cognitive abilities ( i.e. ` overconfidence ' ) .
population	Because the predominant application of modafinil is in otherwise healthy , non-sleep-deprived individuals , the present study investigated the generality of modafinil-induced overconfidence in a group of 18 healthy , non sleep-deprived adults .
intervention	The design involved a double-blind , placebo controlled , fully within-subjects manipulation of placebo and modafinil ( 4 mg/kg : approximately 300 mg , on average ) over three 50-min cognitive testing sessions ( i.e. before drug ingestion , and at 90 and 180 min
other	The cognitive task battery included subjective assessments of mood , fatigue , affect , vigor and motivation , and cognitive assessments of serial reaction time , logical reasoning , visual comparison , mental addition and vigilance .
other	In addition , trial-by-trial confidence judgements were obtained for two of the cognitive tasks and more global , task level assessments of performance were obtained for four of the cognitive tasks .
outcome	Relative to placebo , modafinil improved fatigue levels , motivation , reaction time and vigilance .
outcome	In terms of self-assessments of cognitive performance , both the placebo and modafinil conditions were ` well calibrated ' on trial-by-trial confidence judgements , showing neither marked over - nor under-confidence .
outcome	Of note , the modafinil condition displayed a non-significant tendency towards ` overconfidence ' for task-level assessments of performance .
outcome	The present findings highlight the need for continued research on the many complex interactions involving fatigue states , occasional versus long-term stimulant use , and subjective assessments of fatigue and cognitive performance .

###15846703
background	Neck disorders are common , disabling and costly .
background	The effectiveness of electrotherapy as a physiotherapy option has remained unclear .
population	To assess whether electrotherapy , either alone or in combination with other treatments , relieves pain , or improves function/disability , patient satisfaction , and global perceived effect in adults with mechanical neck disorders ( MND ) .
other	Computer-assisted searches of bibliographic databases CENTRAL , MEDLINE , EMBASE , MANTIS , CINAHL , and ICL , without language restrictions , from their beginning to March 2003 .
other	Randomised or controlled clinical trials with quasi-randomisation ( alternate allocation , case record numbers , dates of birth , etc. ) , in any language , investigating the effects of electrotherapy as a treatment for MND .
other	At least two authors independently conducted citation identification , study selection , data abstraction , and methodological quality assessment .
other	Using a random-effects model , relative risk , and standardized mean differences were calculated .
other	The reasonableness of combining studies was assessed on clinical and statistical grounds .
other	Due to heterogeneity , pooled effect measures were not calculated .
outcome	Fourteen comparisons ( 525 people with MND ) , in 11 publications , were included in this review .
outcome	The analysis was limited by underpowered low quality trials , paucity of literature , and heterogeneity of treatment subtypes .
outcome	The results for the electrotherapy subtypes are : Limited evidence of benefit : low or high frequency pulsed electromagnetic field ( PEMF ) compared to placebo , provides immediate post treatment pain relief only for chronic MND , acute whiplash ( WAD ) Unclear o
outcome	We can not make any definitive statements on electrotherapy for MND .
outcome	The current evidence on Galvanic current ( direct or pulsed ) , iontophoresis , TENS , EMS , PEMF and permanent magnets is either lacking , limited , or conflicting .
outcome	Possible new trials on these interventions should have larger patient samples and include more precise standardization and description of all treatment characteristics .

###17520800
background	Flavonoids are present in fruits , vegetables and beverages derived from plants , and in many dietary supplements or herbal remedies .
background	A number of naturally occurring flavonoids have been shown to modulate the CYP450 system , including the induction or inhibition of these enzymes .
study design	This review focuses on the flavonoid effects on cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzyme CYP1 , 2E1 , 3A4 and 19 .
outcome	Flavonoids alter CYPs by various mechanisms , including the stimulation of gene expression via specific receptors and/or CYP protein , or mRNA stabilization and so on .
outcome	But in vivo and in vitro , the effects of flavonoids are not always coincident as a result of concentrations of flavonoids , genetic and environmental factors .
outcome	As well , flavonoids may interact with drugs through the induction or inhibition of their metabolism .
outcome	Much attention should be paid to the metabolism interaction of the flavonoids when coadministered with other drugs .

###18816309
intervention	This paper aims to present an overview of the literature relating to the effects of endotracheal suctioning ( ETS ) in children and adults with severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
background	TBI is the leading cause of death in children worldwide and continues to result in widespread mortality and morbidity .
background	In intensive care , ETS is an essential nursing procedure that is undertaken but is known to produce some adverse effects in children .
other	A comprehensive literature search was undertaken using a Parahoo and quality of reporting of meta-analyses ( QUOROM ) approach .
other	A range of databases was searched to identify published papers with key search terms .
other	The databases searched included Cochrane Library , Medline , PubMed Central , CINAHL , Proquest and Science Direct .
other	This review is based on 21 papers ( with 433 patients in total ) , but specific papers in paediatric head injury children were extremely limited , and the evidence was largely dated and inconclusive .
outcome	Although the majority of papers demonstrate an increase in intracranial pressure ( ICP ) with ETS , there are contradictory results with regard to recovery times .
outcome	Further research is needed specifically into the effect of ETS on ICP and cerebral perfusion pressure of children with severe TBI , taking into account all the known confounding variables .

###14708953
background	Our genetic make-up , shaped through millions of years of evolution , determines our nutritional and activity needs .
background	Although the human genome has remained primarily unchanged since the agricultural revolution 10,000 years ago , our diet and lifestyle have become progressively more divergent from those of our ancient ancestors .
background	Accumulating evidence suggests that this mismatch between our modern diet and lifestyle and our Paleolithic genome is playing a substantial role in the ongoing epidemics of obesity , hypertension , diabetes , and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
background	Until 500 generations ago , all humans consumed only wild and unprocessed food foraged and hunted from their environment .
background	These circumstances provided a diet high in lean protein , polyunsaturated fats ( especially omega-3 [ omega-3 ] fatty acids ) , monounsaturated fats , fiber , vitamins , minerals , antioxidants , and other beneficial phytochemicals .
background	Historical and anthropological studies show hunter-gatherers generally to be healthy , fit , and largely free of the degenerative cardiovascular diseases common in modern societies .
outcome	This review outlines the essence of our hunter-gatherer genetic legacy and suggests practical steps to re-align our modern milieu with our ancient genome in an effort to improve cardiovascular health .

###7975964
background	258 patients with ovarian carcinomas who underwent surgery at the University Women 's Hospital Charlottenburg/Berlin ( during 1980-1987 ) and at the I.
background	University Women 's Hospital Munich ( during 1987-1990 ) were re-examined for the occurrence of a simultaneous primary secondary carcinoma in the upper genital tract .
other	The diagnoses were made according to strict histological criteria .
outcome	In 13 cases ( 5 % ) simultaneous carcinomas of the upper genital tract were found .
outcome	In this group we would like to especially mention 6 of the 33 patients ( 18.2 % ) with an endometroid ovarian carcinoma , 3 of the 47 patients ( 6.4 % ) with an ovarian tumor of low malignant potential and 1 of the 12 patients with a serous-papillary carcinoma o
outcome	In our opinion these carcinomas are independent multifocal primaries originating from the primary and secondary Mullerian epithelium .
outcome	Staging protocols of these simultaneous tumors , especially prognostic estimation and development of therapeutic strategies should consider this possible multifocal pathogenesis .

###11750932
background	Dysfunction of surviving axons which traverse the site of spinal cord injury ( SCI ) appears to contribute to posttraumatic neurological deficits , though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear .
background	Although demyelination of injured but surviving axons following trauma appear to be a major contributor of axonal conduction deficits , altered activity of ion channels may also play an important role .
background	It has been theorized that exposure of K + channels as a result of demyelination would result in a reduced safety factor of action potential propagation across the demyelinated region of the axon .
background	This theory and electrophysiological studies using K + channel blockers on animal nerve preparations prompted the investigation of 4-aminopyridine ( 4-AP ) , a blocker of rapidly activating voltage-gated K + channels , as a therapeutic agent in both multiple sc
population	Several preliminary clinical trials have already demonstrated therapeutic benefit of 4-AP in both multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injured patients .
study design	In this review , we shall give a comprehensive summary of the mechanisms of axonal dysfunction following SCI and how axonal dysfunction may have resulted due to specific pathological changes following trauma including the ultrastructural and molecular chan
outcome	The pathology of spinal cord injury is very complex and many different mechanisms may contribute to axonal conduction deficits and the associated sensory and motor loss .

###11284550
background	A single dose of an alpha1-noradrenergic antagonist transiently reinstates hemiplegia after recovery from brain injury , which suggests that noradrenaline ( NA ) is required to maintain recovery .
background	No systematic studies have determined the postinjury duration of this vulnerability .
intervention	This study used a within-subject , dose-response design to determine whether prazosin ( PRAZ ) , an alpha1-NA antagonist , or propranolol ( PROP ) , a beta-NA antagonist , would continue to reinstate hemiplegia over time after recovery from weight-drop traumatic b
other	PRAZ transiently reinstated hemiplegia as measured by beam walk ( BW ) score in a dose-dependent manner , with the same degree of symptom reinstatement at 1 , 3 , 6 , and 12 months post-TBI .
outcome	Between-animal variability in reinstatement of hemiplegia by PRAZ was predicted by severity of deficits in BW ability 24 h after TBI .
outcome	In contrast , PRAZ did not reinstate tactile placing deficits at 1 month post-TBI suggesting a different mechanism of maintaining recovery for each task .
outcome	Reinstatement of symptoms are not due to sedation .
outcome	Only TBI rats receiving PRAZ , not high , sedating doses of PROP or saline ( SAL ) , showed return of hemiplegia .
outcome	These data indicate that vulnerability to transient reinstatement of hemiplegia on some tasks endures long after functional recovery from TBI .

###9299247
background	Colon cancer with a synchronous ovarian metastasis is occasionally diagnosed at the time of laparotomy for a pelvic mass .
background	The purpose of this retrospective study is to evaluate the clinical presentation as well as the impact of the type of metastatic spread and surgical intervention on overall survival.We reviewed charts of 23 patients treated between 1980 and 1995 .
other	Pain was the initial symptom in 14 patients ( 61 % ) , with only four patients ( 17 % ) complaining of rectal bleeding , but with five patients ( 22 % ) complaining of uterine bleeding .
other	At the time of laparotomy , the ovarian capsule was intact in 12 patients .
outcome	Metastatic disease to the peritoneum was seen in seven patients and to the liver in six patients .
outcome	On pathological evaluation , the median ovarian tumor size was 10 cm , significantly larger than the median colon tumor size of 4.5 cm .
outcome	Surgical treatment consisted of colon resection in all but one patient , bilateral or unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in 22 patients , and hysterectomy in nine patients .
outcome	Only one patient survived 5 years .
outcome	Sixteen patients died of colon cancer .
outcome	The median survival time was 17.8 months , ranging from 1 to 86 months .
outcome	Tumor size was of no prognostic importance .
outcome	Median survival time of patients with peritoneal disease ( 10.8 months ) was significantly shorter compared to patients without peritoneal disease ( 25.2 months ) .
outcome	In the presence of liver metastasis , the median survival time was , likewise , significantly reduced from 20.1 months to 8.1 months.In conclusion , macroscopic metastatic disease to the ovary is a poor prognostic factor in colon cancer .
outcome	In selected patients who can be rendered disease-free by surgery , prolonged survival is possible and an aggressive approach is recommended .
outcome	Survival of patients with peritoneal disease or liver metastasis is short and a mainly palliative approach is recommended .

###18458990
background	We report the case of a 19-year-old woman who consulted for low-back pain 3 weeks after her first delivery .
background	This young woman had a personal history of protein C deficiency and was treated daily during her pregnancy with low-molecular-weight heparin .
background	Her body mass index was 34 and she only gained 10 kg during her pregnancy .
background	Since the delivery - which occurred without any complication - she had suffered from a gradually increasing right-buttock pain and limp .
intervention	Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) revealed a fracture of the right sacral ala. .
outcome	After analgesia and 1 month of home relative bed rest , the patient recovered her functional capacities .
outcome	Regarding our patient , who had no potential clinical risk factors for osteoporosis , the causal effect of heparin is thus possible but not certain .
outcome	This case report illustrates the fact that clinicians should have a high suspicion of pelvic fracture in post-partum women , even in very young ones , presenting sudden onset of low back and pelvic pain , especially when they have received heparin during pre
outcome	MRI seems to be the key exam because it is able to detect and stage fractures or microfractures .

###11728416
background	Pharmacogenetics is the science of the influence of heredity on pharmacological response .
background	The cost of severe adverse drug reactions in individuals has been estimated in the US alone to be in excess of US$ 4 billion .
background	It has been argued that in a significant proportion of cases , the efficacy and toxicity profiles of drug therapy would be substantially improved in individuals if characteristics due to genetic variation were taken into account .
background	Methods are now available , which make screening for susceptibility feasible .
outcome	There are several therapeutic areas in which screening may give rise to significant improvements in outcome with cost-benefits to both the individual and the community .
outcome	However , there is currently a lack of data on which cost-benefit analysis can be based .
outcome	The challenge is to provide this information for new drugs , and for drugs with established therapeutic roles .

###6263533
population	The overall efficacy and tolerance of a new skeletal muscle relaxant DS 103-282 was evaluated by treating 10 patients with chronic spinal spasticity .
background	Other agents such as baclofen , dantrolene sodium or diazepam had been only minimally beneficial in these patients .
intervention	per day at the end of the 8-week trial period .
outcome	Objective rating assessments showed improvement in spasticity , medullary automatism and clonus .
outcome	No changes were recorded in the reflex pattern nor improvement in disability scores .
outcome	Only a few mild side-effects were reported , there was a noticeable absence of sedation , but reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was noted in most patients .
outcome	DS 103-282 appears to have demonstrable myotonolytic action and in view of its good tolerance it deserves further investigation .

###11460205
background	Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer is a fatal disease , with a median survival of 14 months .
background	Systemic chemotherapy is the most common approach .
background	However the impact in overall survival and quality of life still a controversy .
other	To determine differences in overall survival and quality of life among patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer non-metastatic to the brain treated with best supportive care versus systemic chemotherapy .
population	From February 1990 through December 1995 , 78 eligible patients were admitted with the diagnosis of stage IV non-small cell lung cancer .
other	Patients were divided in 2 groups
intervention	Group A ( n = 31 - treated with best supportive care ) , and Group B ( n = 47 - treated with systemic chemotherapy ) .
outcome	The median survival time was 23 weeks ( range 5 - 153 weeks ) in Group A and 55 weeks ( range 7.4 - 213 weeks ) in Group B ( p = 0.0018 ) .
outcome	In both groups , the incidence of admission for IV antibiotics and need of blood transfusions were similar .
outcome	Patients receiving systemic chemotherapy were also stratified into those receiving mytomycin , vinblastin , and cisplatinum , n = 25 and those receiving other combination regimens ( platinum derivatives associated with other drugs , n = 22 ) .
outcome	Patients receiving mytomycin , vinblastin , and cisplatinum , n = 25 had a higher incidence of febrile neutropenia and had their cycles delayed for longer periods of time than the other group .
outcome	These patients also had a shorter median survival time ( 51 versus 66 weeks , p = 0.005 ) .
outcome	In patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer , non-metastatic to the brain , chemotherapy significantly increases survival compared with best supportive care .

###15708470
background	Motoneuron damage occurs in spinal cord injury and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis .
background	Current advances offer hope that human embryonic stem cells [ Science 282 ( 1998 ) 1145 ] or neural stem cells ( NSC ) [ Exp Neurol 161 ( 2000 ) 67 ; Exp Neurol 158 ( 1999 ) 265 ; J Neurosci Methods 85 ( 1998 ) 141 ; Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 ( 2000 ) 14720 ; Exp Neurol 156
background	Previously , we developed a priming procedure that produced cholinergic cells that resemble motoneurons from human NSCs grafted into adult rat spinal cord [ Nat Neurosci 5 ( 2002a ) 1271 ] .
background	However , effective replacement therapy will ultimately rely on successful connection of new motoneurons with their muscle targets .
population	In this study , we examined the potential of human fetal NSC transplantation to replace lost motoneurons in an animal model of chronic motoneuron deficiency ( newborn sciatic axotomy ) [ J Comp Neurol 224 ( 1984 ) 252 ; J Neurobiol 23 ( 1992 ) 1231 ] .
outcome	We found , for the first time , that human neural stem cell-derived motoneurons send axons that pass through ventral root and sciatic nerve to form neuromuscular junctions with their peripheral muscle targets .
outcome	Furthermore , this new cholinergic innervation correlates with partial improvement of motor function .

###17711395
background	High intracranial pressure ( HICP ) may be a very early event after traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) , but in most cases , especially when contusions and edema develop over time , HICP will worsen over succeeding days .
other	This study describes the incidence and severity of elevated intracranial pressure ( ICP ) after TBI and attempts to document its time course .
population	In this prospective study , 201 TBI patients in whom ICP was monitored for more than 12 h were evaluated .
other	ICP was measured , digitalized , and analyzed after manual filtering .
other	The number of episodes of HICP and the mean ICP value for every 12-h interval were calculated .
other	When monitoring was concluded , the highest mean ICP collected in every patient was identified .
other	A total of 21,000 h of ICP monitoring were recorded .
other	Active treatment to prevent or reduce HICP was used in 200 patients .
other	HICP was documented in 155 cases .
outcome	Half of the patients had their highest mean ICP during the first 3 days after injury , but many showed delayed ICP elevation , with 25 % showing highest mean ICP after day 5 .
outcome	In these cases , HICP was significantly worse and required more intense therapies .

###14664471
population	The aim of this study was to assess the long-term safety and efficacy of glatiramer acetate ( GA ) for patients with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) who received active treatment versus those on placebo for approximately 30 months ( 24-35 months ) before receiving GA
other	Entry required two relapses in the previous two years and an Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) score of 0-5 .
intervention	Patients ( 251 ) were equally randomized to daily subcutaneous GA , 20 mg , or to placebo .
other	After approximately 30 months , 208 patients continued in an open label study 101 continued on GA and 107 switched from placebo to active drug .
other	Groups were well matched at randomization and entry to the open label study .
outcome	Patients always on GA showed a steady decline in relapses : a mean of 1.5 per year at entry , a mean of 0.42 over the entire six years ( 95 % CI = 0.34-0 .51 ) , a 72 % reduction ( P = 0.0001 ) .
outcome	They averaged a relapse every four + years ( yearly rate 0.23 in year six ) and 26/101 remain relapse free .
outcome	Patients did less well if on placebo for 30 months , but relapses then declined , and by year six the rates were similar .
outcome	Of patients always on GA , 69 % showed neurological improvement of > or = 1 EDSS steps or remained stable compared with 57 % if GA treatment was delayed .
outcome	Of relapse-free patients always on GA over six years , only three of 26 ( 11 % ) were worse by > or = 1 EDSS steps , whereas nine of 21 ( 43 % ) in the placebo/active group were worse ( P < 0.03 ) .
outcome	Disability , measured every six months , showed that the group of patients always on GA was relatively stable over the six years , while the group who received placebo for the first two-and-a-half years did significantly less well .
outcome	Daily injections of GA were well tolerated .
outcome	This longest ever organized MS treatment trial shows that delaying therapy with GA increases the risk of neurologic disability , reinforcing the rationale for using GA as a first-line treatment early in the course of relapsing-remitting MS.

###10617256
background	To evaluate the analgesic efficacy of calcitonin suppositories ( 200 IU ) in comparison with bed rest and paracetamol tablets , as a rescue analgesic .
study design	A prospective , double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled , clinical trial .
population	Forty patients ( 8 men and 32 postmenopausal women ) , who had recently ( within the last 5 days ) suffered a nontraumatic osteoporotic vertebral fracture .
intervention	All patients were admitted to the hospital , divided randomly into two groups and received either one calcitonin or placebo suppository once a day , respectively , for 28 days .
intervention	All patients were allowed to take paracetamol tablets ( 500 mg ) , with a maximum dose of six tablets daily .
other	Spinal pain evaluation was performed at the beginning of the study ( before the initiation of treatment ) and then daily until the end of the study ( day 28 ) using the Huskinsson 's visual analog scale ( VAS ) and a painmeter device , by direct pressure on the fractured vertebra .
other	Pain was evaluated with the patients attempting or performing four different locomotor functions , e.g. , bed rest , sitting , standing , and walking functions .
other	Biochemical urine and plasma measurements were carried out before the initiation of treatment and on days 14 and 28 .
outcome	All calcitonin-treated patients experienced an overall statistically significant ( all p values < 0.001 ) decrease of spinal pain as assessed by the VAS and the painmeter device .
outcome	Pain relief allowed for early mobilization and the gradual restoration of the locomotive functions in the calcitonin-treated group .
outcome	Placebo-treated patients remained in bed for almost the whole of the observation period .
outcome	At the end of the study ( 28th day ) , fasting osteocalcin , hydroxyproline/creatinine , and calcium/creatinine ratio values were statistically significantly ( all p values < 0.001 ) , lower in the calcitonin-treated than in the placebo-treated patients .
outcome	In the placebo group these values showed a gradual increase .
outcome	In the calcitonin-treated group side effects mainly included dizziness and enteric irritation caused by the suppositories .
outcome	Enteric irritation was also present in the placebo-treated group .
outcome	Salmon calcitonin suppositories ( 200 IU daily ) caused a dramatic decrease in spinal pain in patients with recent osteoporotic vertebral fractures and influenced the early mobilization and the gradual restoration of their locomotor functions .

###11687076
background	The n-3 and n-6 fatty acids linolenic acid and linoleic acid are precursors of the n-3 and n-6 longchain fatty acids ( LCPUFA ) .
background	Infant formula has historically only contained the precursor fatty acids .
background	Controversy exists over whether LCPUFA are also essential nutrients in infancy .
background	Over the last few years some manufacturers have added LCPUFA to formulae and marketed them as providing an advantage for the development of term infants .
population	The aim of this review is to assess whether supplementation of formula with LCPUFA is safe and of benefit to term infants .
other	Trials were identified by MEDLINE , checking reference lists of articles and conference proceedings , and by personal communication .
other	All randomised trials of formula supplemented with LCPUFA and with clinical endpoints were reviewed .
other	Ten randomised studies were identified .
other	One of these studies was excluded due to supplementation commencing after three weeks of age .
other	Eight of the nine included trials were assessed to be of good quality .
other	There was insufficient information available to assess the quality of the other included trial .
outcome	Visual acuity was assessed by visual evoked potentials ( VEP ) at 4 and 7-8 months in the studies of Makrides et al ( 1995 & 1996 ) .
outcome	The supplemented infants had an improved rate of visual maturation at both time points in the first study , but no difference was found between the groups at the same time points in the second study .
outcome	VEP acuity was also assessed in the study of Austed et al ( 1997 ) and no effect of supplementation was found at any time point over the first year .
outcome	This contrasts with the study of Birch et al ( 1998 ) where VEP acuity was better in the supplemented group compared with the control group at 6 weeks , 4 and 12 months but not at 6 months .
outcome	Visual acuity was assessed by Teller acuity cards in the study of Carlson et al ( 1996 ) , Clausen et al ( 1996 ) , Austed et al ( 1997 ) and Birch et al ( 1998 ) .
outcome	Supplementation had no effect on visual acuity over the first year of life except at one of five time points in the study of Carlson et al ( 1996 ) .
outcome	Intellectual development was measured in seven studies .
outcome	The two largest studies showed no effect of supplementation on development , either at 18 months ( Lucas et al 1999 ) or at one and three years ( Janowsky et al 1995 , Scott et al 1997 ) .
outcome	The next largest study reported better developmental scores at 18 months in the supplemented group ( Birch et al 2000 ) but when combined with data of Lucas et al , no significant benefit is shown .
outcome	Makrides et al ( 1995 & 1996 ) also showed no benefit to development with supplementation over the first two years of life .
outcome	Agostini et al 1995 reported a benefit in development at 4 months of age with supplementation but when the infants were followed up with the same test at 1 and 2 years , no difference between groups was found ( Agostini et al 1997 ) .
outcome	The Portland study showed no effect of supplementation on language development at one and three years ( Janowsky et al 1995 , Scott et al 1997 ) .
outcome	Clausen et al ( 1996 ) reported better novelty preference measured by Fagan Infant test at nine months in supplemented infants compared with controls .
outcome	Willatts et al ( 1998 ) reported better problem solving at 10 months with supplementation .
outcome	Growth was measured in the studies of Makrides et al ( 1995 & 1996 ) , Austed et al ( 1997 ) , Willatts et al 1998 , Lucas et al 1999 and Birch et al 2000 .
outcome	LCPUFA supplementation did not influence growth in any of these studies .
outcome	At present there is little evidence from randomised trials of LCPUFA supplementation to support the hypothesis that LCPUFA supplementation confers a benefit for visual or general development of term infants .
outcome	Minor effects on VEP acuity have been suggested but appear unlikely when all studies are reviewed .
outcome	A beneficial effect on information processing is possible but larger studies over longer periods are required to conclude that LCPUFA supplementation provides a benefit when compared with standard formula .
outcome	Data from randomised trials do not suggest that LCPUFA supplements influence the growth of term infants .

###7115037
population	Data from serial follow-up evaluations of 103 patients with traumatic and atraumatic myelopathy were recorded to determine rates of significant bacteriuria associated with various types of bladder emptying in an outpatient population .
other	Urine culture specimens were obtained by sterile catheterization .
other	Rates of urinary tract infection in bladder-retrained patients , patients using intermittent self-catheterization , and patients with indwelling catheters were compared at sequential follow-up visits .
outcome	Infection rates were similar ( 20 % to 30 % ) in persons with catheter-free voiding after successful bladder retraining and in those using sterile intermittent self-catheterization .
outcome	In the latter group , however , there was a trend toward higher infection rates beyond 15 months after rehabilitation .
outcome	As expected , persons with indwelling catheters had universally high infection rates .
outcome	Generally lower infection rates were found in persons with incomplete myelopathies ( 18 % ) than in those with complete myelopathies ( 34 % ) .
outcome	Tetraplegic persons had 2.5 times the infection rate of paraplegic persons in the bladder-retrained group .
outcome	Infection rates tended to be lower in persons with lower motor neuron bladder dysfunction than in those with upper motor neuron or mixed bladder dysfunction .

###10698810
background	The authors assessed changes over time in antidepressant utilization among elderly subjects regarding the prevalence of antidepressant users , shifts in prescription patterns , and related financial implications .
population	The authors conducted a population-based study of more than 1.4 million Ontario residents aged 65 years or older .
other	Cross-sectional data regarding annual antidepressant utilization were obtained from administrative databases for 1993 to 1997 .
other	Time series analysis was used to assess trends over time and to make future projections .
outcome	The proportion of antidepressant users increased from 9.3 % of the elderly population in 1993 to 11.5 % in 1997 .
outcome	Prescriptions for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) accounted for 9.6 % of antidepressant prescriptions dispensed in the first 30 days of 1993 and 45.1 % of those dispensed by the last 30 days of 1997 and were projected to increase to approxim
outcome	Prescriptions for tricyclic antidepressants fell from 79.0 % in the first 30 days of 1993 to 43.1 % by the last 30 days of 1997 and were projected to decline to approximately 28 % by the end of 2000 .
outcome	Annual antidepressant costs ( in Canadian dollars ) increased by 150 % , from $ 10.8 million in 1993 to $ 27.0 million in 1997 .
outcome	Population shifts and an increase in the prevalence of antidepressant users accounted for at least 20 % of this increase , whereas the prescribing transition from tricyclic antidepressants to SSRIs accounted for at least 61 % of the increase .
outcome	The introduction of SSRIs has had a substantial financial impact at the drug utilization level .
outcome	Future research should address the appropriate balancing of the cost of newer agents versus their ostensible advantages .

###15767833
background	Muscle strains and other musculoskeletal disorders ( MSDs ) are a leading cause of work absenteeism .
background	Muscle pain , spasm , swelling , and inflammation are symptomatic of strains .
background	The precise relationship between musculoskeletal pain and spasm is not well understood .
background	The dictum that pain induces spasm , which causes more pain , is not substantiated by critical analysis .
other	The painful muscle may not show EMG activity , and when there is , the timing and intensity often do not correlate with the pain .
other	Clinical and physiologic studies show that pain tends to inhibit rather than facilitate reflex contractile activity .
background	The decision to treat and choice of therapy are largely dictated by the duration , severity of symptoms , and degree of dysfunction .
background	Trigger point injections are sometimes used with excellent results in the treatment of muscle spasm in myofacial pain and low-back pain .
outcome	NSAIDs are used with much greater frequency than oral skeletal muscle relaxants ( SMRs ) or opioids in the treatment of acute MSDs .
outcome	Unfortunately , remarkably little sound science guides the choice of drug for the treatment of acute , uncomplicated MSDs , and the evaluation of efficacy of one agent over another is complicated by numerous factors .
outcome	Only a limited number of high-quality , randomized , controlled trials ( RCTs ) provide evidence of the effectiveness of NSAIDs or SMRs in the treatment of acute , uncomplicated MSDs .
outcome	The quality of design , execution , and reporting of trials for the treatment of MSDs needs to be improved .
outcome	The combination of an SMR and an NSAID or COX-2 inhibitor or the combination of SMR and tramadol/acetaminophen is superior to single agents alone .

###16034862
background	Appendicitis is the most common cause of acute abdominal pain requiring surgical intervention .
background	The cause of appendicitis is unclear and the mechanism of pathogenesis continues to be debated .
background	Despite improved asepsis and surgical techniques , postoperative complications , such as wound infection and intraabdominal abscess , still account for a significant morbidity .
background	Several studies implicate that postoperative infections are reduced by administration of antimicrobial regimes .
population	This review evaluated the use of antibiotics compared to placebo or no treatment in patients undergoing appendectomy .
other	Will these patients benefit from antimicrobial prophylaxis ?
other	The outcomes were described according to the nature of the appendix , as either simple appendicitis ( including the non-infectious stage ) and complicated appendicitis .
other	The efficacy of different antibiotic regimens were not evaluated .
other	We searched The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( Cochrane Library 2005 issue 1 ) ; Pubmed ; EMBASE ; and the Cochrane Colorectal Cancer Group Specialised Register ( April 2005 ) .
other	In addition , we manually searched the reference lists of the primary identified trials .
other	We evaluated Randomised Controlled Trials ( RCTs ) and Controlled Clinical Trials ( CCTs ) in which any antibiotic regime were compared to placebo in patients suspected of having appendicitis , and undergoing appendectomy .
other	Both studies on children and adults were reviewed .
other	The outcome measures of the studies were Wound infection , intra abdominal abscess , length of stay in hospital , and mortality .
other	Eligibility and trial quality were assessed , recorded and cross-checked by two reviewers .
other	Forty-five studies including 9576 patients were included in this review .
outcome	The overall result is that the use of antibiotics is superior to placebo for preventing wound infection and intraabdominal abscess , with no apparent difference in the nature of the removed appendix .
outcome	Studies exclusively on children and studies examining topical application reported results in favour to the above , although the results were not significant .
outcome	Antibiotic prophylaxis is effective in the prevention of postoperative complications in appendectomised patients , whether the administration is given pre - , peri - or post-operatively , and could be considered for routine in emergency appendectomies .

###9935109
background	To compare the efficacy of two clinically accepted methods of progesterone supplementation during IVF .
study design	Prospective randomized trial .
other	A university-based IVF program .
population	Three hundred fourteen stimulated IVF cycles between January 1993 and October 1994 .
intervention	Patients were assigned to one of two luteal phase progesterone regimens by a random permuted block design .
intervention	In protocol A , 12.5 mg of IM progesterone was given 12 hours before oocyte retrieval ; in protocol B , 25 mg of IM progesterone was given on the day of oocyte retrieval .
other	Main Outcome Measure ( s ) Clinical pregnancy .
outcome	Patient demographic characteristics , including age , diagnosis , number of oocytes retrieved and fertilized , and number of embryos transferred , were not different between the two groups .
outcome	There was no difference in the rate of cycle cancellation between the groups .
outcome	One hundred forty ETs were performed in patients assigned to protocol A and 142 in patients assigned to protocol B.
outcome	The clinical pregnancy rate in group A was 12.9 % compared with 24.6 % in group B. CONCLUSION ( S ) : The administration of progesterone before oocyte retrieval is associated with a lower pregnancy rate than the administration of progesterone after oocyte retri

###6084564
population	Fifty four cases of acute large bowel obstruction were observed in an overall groups of 266 patients with colonic carcinoma .
background	Pre-operative elements which seems to contra-indicate a primary radical surgery and advantages of the same procedure are considered .
outcome	In the experience of the Authors , primary and delayed staged resection of the cancer seems to give the same survival rate at short and long term .
outcome	Choice of surgery of obstructive large bowel carcinoma should be based pratically on general patient 's conditions .

###16854522
background	Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy is a sensory neuropathy that affects thousands of cancer patients each year as paclitaxel is commonly used to treat breast , non-small cell lung and ovarian cancer .
background	To begin to define the type and location of sensory neurons most impacted by paclitaxel , we examined rat trigeminal ganglion , thoracic and lumbar dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) 10 days following intravenous infusion of clinically relevant doses of paclitaxel .
other	To define the population of cells injured by paclitaxel , we examined the expression of activating transcription factor-3 ( ATF3 ) , a marker of cell injury ; to define the hypertrophy of satellite cells , we quantified the expression of the intermediate filament protein glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) ; and to define the activation of macrophages , we examined the expression of the lysosomal protein CD68 .
outcome	Intravenous infusion of paclitaxel induced a significant increase of ATF3 in mainly but not exclusively large and medium sensory neurons in all sensory ganglia .
outcome	An increase in both GFAP immunofluorescence in satellite cells and the number of activated macrophages occurred in lumbar > thoracic > trigeminal ganglia of paclitaxel-treated rats .
outcome	This differential expression of cellular markers suggests that the largest sensory cell bodies with the longest axons are the most at risk of being injured by paclitaxel ( size and length dependent pathology ) .
outcome	These results provide a pathological basis for the anatomical distribution of paclitaxel-induced symptoms in patients receiving therapeutic regimens of paclitaxel .

###6648007
background	Substantial relief of discomfort may be anticipated by most patients suffering from pelvic and lower-extremity pain who are treated by arterial infusion of nitrogen mustard .
population	Seventy-three patients with intractable pain secondary to malignancy arising in the pelvis received 83 percutaneous pelvic arterial infusions of this drug .
outcome	Sixty infusions ( 72 % ) resulted in marked relief from pain for periods averaging 6-8 weeks .
outcome	Advantages of the procedure are low toxicity , relative simplicity and availability of technique , and an acceptable rate of complications with minimal morbidity .
outcome	Patients experiencing satisfactory results may expect significant relief from a second infusion for recurrent pain .
outcome	The most rewarding result is the freedom from the cyclic return of pain characterized by oral and intramuscular analgesic therapy .
outcome	Little or no relief can be expected in patients with pain caused by compression fractures of the vertebrae , or where the tumor burden is so great that adequate perfusion of the involved nerves is not possible .
outcome	One should consider this procedure for controlling pain before resorting to the more dangerous and potentially disabling techniques of spinal cordotomy or intrathecal alcohol injection .

###16850305
background	This case report describes a 63-year-old male patient with considerably impaired postoperative wound healing in the region of the lower extremities .
intervention	After initial drug therapy for the pain was ineffectual , the patient was treated repeatedly through an epidural catheter .
outcome	In the further course , an extensive spinal epidural abscess was diagnosed as an incidental finding without neurological symptoms .
outcome	After taking into consideration the patient 's age and the risk factors present as well as inclusion of the subspecialties involved for an interdisciplinary assessment , the patient was successfully treated with a conservative approach .
outcome	Our contribution concludes with a detailed discussion and comparison of the literature .

###10364356
background	The Mahoney strain of poliovirus type 1 ( OM ) is generally unable to cause paralysis in mice .
population	We isolated a mouse-adapted mutant , PV1/OM-SA ( SA ) , from the spinal cord of a mouse that had been intracerebrally inoculated with OM .
outcome	SA showed mouse neurovirulence only with intraspinal inoculation , and the infected mice developed a flaccid paralysis , which was indistinguishable from that observed in poliovirus-sensitive transgenic mice inoculated with OM .
outcome	SA antigens were detected in neurons of the spinal cords of the infected mice .
outcome	Nucleotide ( nt ) sequence analysis revealed 9 nt changes on the SA genome , resulting in three amino acid ( a.a. ) substitutions , i.e. , one each in the capsid proteins VP4 and VP1 and in the noncapsid protein 2C .
outcome	To identify the key mutation site ( s ) for the mouse neurovirulence , virus recombinants between OM and SA were constructed by using infectious cDNA clones of these two viruses and tested for their mouse neurovirulence after inoculation via an intraspinal ro
outcome	The results indicated that a mutation at nt 928 ( replacement of A with G ) , resulting in a substitution of Met for Ile at a.a. 62 within VP4 , was responsible for conferring the mouse neurovirulence phenotype of the mutant SA .
outcome	The mutation in VP4 may render the virus accessible to a molecule that acts as a virus receptor and is located on the surfaces of neurons of the mouse spinal cord .
outcome	This molecule appears not to be expressed in the mouse brain .

###7970862
background	Chronic central pain is a frequent complication after spinal cord injury .
background	Anticonvulsant drugs , among them valproate , have been recommended for treatment .
study design	In this paper we conducted a double-blind , cross-over study comparing valproate and placebo for severe chronic central pain .
intervention	During the study , serum concentration of valproate , pain and side effects were registered and the dose was adjusted according to these .
outcome	No significant analgesic effects of valproate could be demonstrated although serum concentration and dose reached a high level .
outcome	Few studies of pain following spinal cord injury exist and we recommend that further studies be performed .

###15662542
background	In cervical spondylotic myelopathy , extended anterior spinal cord decompression necessitates subsequent stable vertebral reconstruction .
background	Reconstruction with an iliac crest graft and screw-plate fixation gives satisfactory clinical and radiological results , but they are often compromised by morbidity involving the bone harvest .
intervention	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the contribution to cervical reconstruction of a biocompatible , radiolucent cage combined with screw-plate fixation , making use of bone harvested in situ .
population	This prospective study was performed between July 2000 and March 2001 in eight women and nine men ( mean age , 55 years ) operated for cervical spondylotic myelopathy .
other	Situated between levels C3 and C6 , the cage was inserted after one corporectomy in ten patients , two corporectomies in five patients , and three corporectomies in two patients .
other	The cage consisted of a polyester mesh impregnated with poly-L-lactic acid ( PLLA ) conferring temporary rigidity to the cage during bony fusion .
other	Clinical and radiological follow-up ( plain films , computed tomographic reconstruction in three cases ) was performed at 2 months , 6 months , 12 months , 24 months and 36 months , postoperatively , with a mean follow-up of 30 months .
other	Functional results were evaluated according to the Japanese Orthopaedic Association 's scoring system .
other	An independent surgeon assessed the radiological evidence of anterior cervical fusion using the grades proposed by Bridwell [ 6 ] .
outcome	Every patient experienced neurological recovery .
outcome	At last follow-up , radiological findings were consistent with grade I ( complete fusion ) in five cases , grade II ( probable fusion ) in ten cases , grade III ( radiolucent halo in favor of non fusion ) in one case , and grade IV ( graft lysis ) in one case with pe
other	In three cases there was screw breakage ( two grade II , one grade IV ) .
other	None of these cases required surgical revision at latest follow-up .
outcome	In extensive spinal cord decompression through an anterior approach , cervical reconstruction using the present type of cage can achieve clinical results comparable to conventional techniques .
outcome	The rigidity of the cage meets biomechanical imperatives .
outcome	Its radiolucency permits one to monitor the course of consolidation , contrary to metal cages .
outcome	The cases of probable non-fusion and screw breakage were not accompanied by signs of instability on the flexion extension films .
outcome	This cage meets the biologic and biomechanical imperatives of cervical reconstruction .
outcome	It obviates complications involving bone harvest .

###17215755
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a major health problem , both in terms of the economic cost to society and the survivor 's quality of life .
background	The development of devices to protect against TBI requires criteria that relate observed injury to measurements of head kinematics .
background	The objective of this study is to find the best statistical correlates to impact-induced TBI in nonhuman primates using a qualified , self-consistent set of historical kinematic and TBI data from impact tests on nonhuman primates .
population	A database was constructed and qualified from historical head impact tests on nonhuman primates .
other	Multivariate logistic regression analysis with backwards stepwise elimination was performed .
other	Variables considered are the peak rotational acceleration ( Omegamax ) , the peak linear acceleration ( Amax ) , and the number of impacts ( N ) .
outcome	Bivariate combinations of angular acceleration and the number of impacts are the best correlates to all modes of TBI considered , i.e. , concussion , subarachnoid hemorrhage , brain contusion , and subdural hematoma .
outcome	For a nonhuman primate with 100-g brain mass , the criteria that the probability of TBI is less than 10 % by injury mode are : Concussion : OmegamaxN ( 0.84 ) < 70 krad/s/s SAH : OmegamaxN ( 0.70 ) < 160 krad/s/s Contusion : Omegamax N ( 0.35 ) < 160 krad/s/s SD
outcome	Based on this dataset , the best statistically based risk factor for all modes of TBI in nonhuman primates is the bivariate combination of rotational acceleration and number of impacts .

###12531372
background	The clinician manages trauma patients in the emergency room , operation theatre , intensive care unit and trauma ward with an endeavour to provide best possible treatment for physical injuries .
background	At the same time , it is equally important to give adequate attention to behavioural and psychological aspects associated with the event .
background	Knowledge of the predisposing factors and their management helps the clinician to prevent or manage these psychological problems .
background	Various causes of psychological disturbances in trauma patients have been highlighted .
background	These include pain , the sudden and unexpected nature of events and the procedures and interventions necessary to resuscitate and stabilise the patient .
background	The ICU and trauma ward environment , sleep and sensory deprivation , impact of injury on CNS , medications and associated pre-morbid conditions are also significant factors .
background	Specific problems that concern the traumatised patients are helplessness , humiliation , threat to body image and mental symptoms .
background	The patients react to these stressors by various defence mechanisms like conservation withdrawal , denial , regression , anger , anxiety and depression .
background	Some of them develop delirium or even more severe problems like acute stress disorder or post-traumatic stress disorder .
population	Physical , pharmacological or psychological interventions can be performed to prevent or minimise these problems in trauma patients .
intervention	These include adequate pain relief , prevention of sensory and sleep deprivation , providing familiar surroundings , careful explanations and reassurance to the patient , psychotherapy and pharmacological treatment whenever required .

###14534891
background	The goal of the current study was to compare the long-term ( 25-month ) safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid with pamidronate in patients with bone lesions secondary to advanced breast carcinoma or multiple myeloma .
population	Patients ( n = 1648 ) were randomized to receive 4 mg or 8 mg ( reduced to 4 mg ) zoledronic acid as a 15-minute infusion or to receive 90 mg pamidronate as a 2-hour infusion every 3-4 weeks for 24 months .
other	The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with at least 1 skeletal-related event ( SRE ) , defined as pathologic fracture , spinal cord compression , radiation therapy , or surgery to bone .
other	Secondary analyses included time to first SRE , skeletal morbidity rate , and multiple-event analysis .
other	Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( HCM ) was included as an SRE in some secondary analyses .
outcome	After 25 months of follow-up , zoledronic acid reduced the overall proportion of patients with an SRE and reduced the skeletal morbidity rate similar to pamidronate .
outcome	Compared with pamidronate , zoledronic acid ( 4 mg ) reduced the overall risk of developing skeletal complications ( including HCM ) by an additional 16 % ( P = 0.030 ) .
outcome	In patients with breast carcinoma , zoledronic acid ( 4 mg ) was significantly more effective than pamidronate , reducing the risk of SREs by an additional 20 % ( P = 0.025 ) compared with pamidronate and by an additional 30 % in patients receiving hormonal thera
outcome	Zoledronic acid ( 4 mg ) and pamidronate were tolerated equally well .
outcome	The most common adverse events included bone pain , nausea , and fatigue .
outcome	Long-term follow-up data confirm that zoledronic acid was more effective than pamidronate in reducing the risk of skeletal complications in patients with bone metastases from breast carcinoma and was of similar efficacy in patients with multiple myeloma .

###16813128
background	To adapt and validate the Spanish language version of the Diabetes 39 instrument , which measures quality of life , for Mexican patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( DM-2 ) .
population	The Spanish language version of the instrument was adapted to make it more comprehensible to Mexican patients .
population	In a cross-sectional survey , the instrument was administered on two different days to 260 patients with type DM-2 .
other	Glycated hemoglobin ( HbAic ) , total cholesterol , triglycerides , blood pressure , body mass index and waist/hip ratio were measured .
other	Information about age , sex , time since diagnosis of diabetes , diabetes related complications and comorbidity was obtained .
outcome	A total of 249 subjects completed the study , 62.7 % of which were women .
outcome	Cronbach 's alpha coefficient was > or = 0.80 for the domains and 0.95 for the total score.The test-retest consistency for the total score was r = 0.82 , p = 0.01 .
outcome	The median of the total score was 29 ( on a scale of 0-100 ) , which was considered the cutoff value for defining `` better '' ( < 29 ) and `` worse '' > or = 29 ) quality of life.A worse quality of life was associated with diabetes related complic
outcome	The last three were identified as predictor variables for worse quality of life by logistic regression ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	The adapted Spanish language version of Diabetes 39 is a reliable and valid instrument for measuring the quality of life of Mexican patients with DM-2 .

###2545507
other	1 .
outcome	Field electrical stimulation elicited an increase of the tritium efflux over the basal level from cat cerebral arteries previously incubated with ( + / - ) [ 3H ] noradrenaline ( [ 3H ] NA ) .
other	2 .
outcome	This efflux was : ( a ) reduced by clonidine , NA or B-HT 920 ; ( b ) unaffected by methoxamine , prazosin and yohimbine ( 10 ( -6 ) M ) ; ( c ) reduced by yohimbine ( 5 x 10 ( -6 ) M ) , and ( d ) increased by phentolamine .
other	3 .
outcome	The effect of clonidine was blocked by yohimbine .
other	4 .
outcome	The daily treatment with the neuronal uptake blockers desipramine ( 10 mg/kg , i.p. ) or cocaine ( 10 mg/kg , i.p. ) [ during 12 days ] , antagonized the inhibitory action of clonidine totally or partially , respectively .
other	5 .
outcome	These results suggest : ( 1 ) the existence of presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors in these arteries , which modulate the NA release , and ( 2 ) that chronic treatment with desipramine or cocaine induces a subsensitivity of these alpha 2-receptors , which facilitat

###15738550
background	The rising prevalence of type 2 diabetes in the UK has necessitated a change in the delivery of diabetes care , with a shift of focus from hospital to community .
background	The National Service Framework for Diabetes has enshrined this approach , and the new General Medical Services ( GMS2 ) contract rewards primary healthcare professionals for developing high-quality diabetes care .
background	New approaches cross the primary/secondary care divide and are patient focused .
background	The evolution of diabetes care in the UK is illustrated by service developments in Newham , East London .

###8622391
background	No somatic treatment has been found to be effective for chronic fatigue syndrome ( CFS ) .
background	Antidepressant therapy is commonly used .
background	Fluoxetine is recommended in preference to tricyclic agents because it has fewer sedative and autonomic nervous system effects .
background	However , there have been no randomised , placebo-controlled , double-blind studies showing the effectiveness of antidepressant therapy in CFS .
background	We have carried out such a study to assess the effect of fluoxetine in depressed and non-depressed CFS patients .
population	In this randomised , double-blind study , we recruited 44 patients to the depressed CFS group , and 52 to the non-depressed CFS group .
intervention	In each group participants were randomly assigned to receive either fluoxetine ( 20 mg once daily ) or placebo for 8 weeks .
other	The effect of fluoxetine was assessed by questionnaires , self-observation lists , standard neuropsychological tests , and a motion-sensing device ( Actometer ) , which were applied on the day treatment started and on the last day .
outcome	The two groups were well matched in terms of age , sex distribution , employment and marital status , and duration of CFS .
outcome	There were no significant differences between the placebo and fluoxetine-treated groups in the change during the 8-week treatment period for any dimension of CFS .
outcome	There was no change in subjective assessments of fatigue , severity of depression , functional impairment , sleep disturbances , neuropsychological function , cognitions , or physical activity in the depressed or the non-depressed subgroup .
outcome	Fluoxetine in a 20 mg daily dose does not have a beneficial effect on any characteristic of CFS .
outcome	The lack of effect of fluoxetine on depressive symptoms in CFS suggests that processes underlying the presentation of depressive symptoms in CFS may differ from those in patients with major depressive disorder .

###15674940
background	Cervical dystonia is the most common form of focal dystonia .
background	It is characterized by involuntary posturing of the head and frequently is associated with neck pain .
background	Disability and social withdrawal are common .
background	Most cases are idiopathic , and generally it is a life-long disorder .
background	In recent years , botulinum toxin type A ( BtA ) has become first line therapy for cervical dystonia .
background	However , not all patients respond well to BtA , and 5 to 10 % become resistant to it .
background	Botulinum toxin B ( BtB ) is an alternative to BtA and offers the potential to help patients who do not respond to BtA .
background	At present there is no compelling theoretical reason why it should not be as effective as , or even more effective than , BtA .
intervention	To compare the clinical efficacy and safety of BtA versus BtB in cervical dystonia .
other	Studies for inclusion in the review were identified using the Cochrane Movement Disorders Group trials register , the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) , MEDLINE , EMBASE , by handsearching the Movement Disorders Journal and abstracts of international congresses on movement disorders and botulinum toxin , by communication with other researchers in the field , by searching reference lists of papers found using the above search strategies , and by contact with authors and drug manufacturer .
other	Studies were considered eligible for inclusion in the review if they evaluated the efficacy of BtA versus BtB for the treatment of cervical dystonia .
other	Trials must have been randomised and placebo-controlled .
other	A paper pro-forma was used to collect data from the included studies using double extraction by two independent reviewers .
other	Each trial was assessed for internal validity by each of the two reviewers .
other	Differences were settled by discussion .
other	The outcome measures used included improvement in symptomatic rating scales , subjective evaluation by patients and clinicians , changes in pain scores , changes in quality of life assessments , and frequency and severity of adverse events .
outcome	We can not give any results since we have only identified two ongoing trials and there are no preliminary results or interim analyses available for them .
outcome	The full results of these trials are expected in late 2004 or 2005 .
outcome	It is currently not possible to make definitive comparisons between BtA and BtB for the treatment of cervical dystonia ; uncontrolled comparisons should be regarded with suspicion .

###6814296
population	Experiences gained in 5 patients subjected to endobronchial intubation with a double-lumen tube on account of several causes are reported .
intervention	The mean length of application was 45.3 ( 6.5-67 .5 h ) , and depending on the underlying diagnosis , several techniques of controlled ventilation or spontaneous breathing were used .
other	In all cases arterial blood pressure and central venous pressure were continuously monitored throughout the duration of the treatment , and in some cases the airway pressures were measured .
other	Frequent blood gas analyses were carried out and x-rays of the chest regularly taken .
other	In one case the haemodynamic patterns were studied via a Swan-Ganz catheter .
outcome	In all cases an improvement of the predominantly unilateral pathology of the lungs was observed under independent ventilation or spontaneous breathing , as assessed by blood gas analysis and of x-ray examination .
outcome	Irrespective of synchronization , the simultaneous application of 2 ventilators for the controlled ventilation of the patient had clinically no relevant effects on haemodynamics .
outcome	In cases of unilateral pulmonary complications we therefore see at present the following indications for using a double lumen endobronchial tube : 1 .
outcome	pulmonary contusions with endobronchial bleeding .
outcome	We believe that double lumen endobronchial plastic tubes with hi-lo cuffs are , when properly applied , an advance in long term intubation and mechanical ventilation managements .

###18283270
background	Early proper diagnostics and treatment of developmental age pathologies in most cases facilitate correct sex organ development , as well as reproductive functions formation .
background	To make the foregoing possible , it is necessary to apply minimally invasive and safest methods like vaginoscopy , hysteroscopy and laparoscopy .
background	The main application field of vaginoscopy and hysteroscopy in pediatric and adolescent gynecology is the diagnosis and treatment of vulvar and vaginal pathologies and developmental anomalies of sex organ .
background	The laparoscopy is becoming a more and more popular method in the treatment of adnexal tumors in children , due to its little invasiveness , quick recovery and less severe pain complaints after the surgery .
background	The application of these endoscopic procedures should always be preceded by the complex noninvasive diagnostics , such as ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging .
background	The endoscopic procedures facilitate wide-ranging diagnostics and simultaneously therapeutic management , ensuring minimal invasion and high safety of the surgery .
background	They should be considered diagnostics and treatment of choice in the pathology of vulva , vagina , developmental anomalies of sex organ and adnexal tumors in patients of the developmental age .

###14676650
background	Infectious complications are among the most serious problems that occur in severely head-injured patients treated with mild hypothermia .
background	The mechanism underlying the susceptibility to infection has not been clarified .
background	Heat shock protein ( HSP ) 60 has been reported to play an essential role in innate immunity .
other	Thus , we conducted a study to clarify the impact of mild hypothermia on the expression of HSPs in polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( PMNLs ) in severely head-injured patients .
population	Between September 1997 and November 1999 , 17 severely head-injured patients with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 8 or less at admission in whom intracranial pressure could be maintained below 20 mm Hg by conventional therapy were randomly assigned to two tr
intervention	The HT group was subjected to mild hypothermia ( intracranial temperature , 34 degrees C ) for 48 hours followed by rewarming at a rate of 1 degrees C per day for 3 days , whereas the NT group was subjected to normothermia ( intracranial temperature , 37 degree
other	Blood samples were serially obtained at three time points ; days 0 to 1 , days 2 to 5 , and days 6 to 14 after head injury .
other	We measured the expression of HSP27 , HSP60 , HSP70 , and HSP90 by flow cytometry .
outcome	The two groups were similar with respect to prognostic factors , and there was no difference in clinical outcome .
outcome	The expression of PMNL HSP60 in the HT group was significantly lower in all three time periods compared with that in the NT group ( p < 0.05 ) , whereas expression of the other HSPs did not differ significantly between the groups .
outcome	The incidence of infectious complications was significantly increased in the HT group over that in the NT group ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	In in vitro studies , PMNLs from 10 healthy volunteers were incubated at 37 degrees C , 34 degrees C , or 26 degrees C for 1 hour with sodium arsenite ( 100 micromol/L ) , an HSP inducer .
outcome	The expression of HSP60 at 26 degrees C and 34 degrees C was significantly lower than that at 37 degrees C ( p < 0.05 ) , whereas expression of the other HSPs did not differ significantly at 26 degrees C , 34 degrees C , or 37 degrees C.
outcome	Mild hypothermia reduces the expression of HSP60 in PMNLs from severely head-injured patients .
outcome	Thus , mild hypothermia may suppress innate immunity .

###10949110
population	Imipramine and amitriptyline , nonselective monoamine reuptake inhibitors , citalopram , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor , and maprotiline , selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor , were tested after intracerebroventricular ( icv ) and intrathecal ( it )
outcome	All drugs evoked dose-dependent analgesia after icv but not after it microinjections .
outcome	The changes in the nociceptive behavior of rats pre-treated with antidepressants were not due to the non-specific influences of the drugs on the animals ' gross behavior , as revealed by the open field test .
outcome	The obtained results suggest that an antidepressant-induced analgesia mainly depends on the supraspinal effect with minor , if any , contribution from the spinal mechanisms .

###6464584
population	Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) in a pressure chamber with an oxygen pressure of up to 2.8 absolute atmospheres administered to patients with various lesions of the spinal cord ( trauma sequelae , discogenic ischemic myelopathy , states after tumor removal , etc
outcome	Pelvic and motor functions as well as sensitivity and reflexes returned to normal and the pain syndromes were alleviated .
outcome	The therapeutic response to HBO is directly dependent on the role played by reversible functional lesions of the spinal cord in the general picture of the disease .

###17159724
background	Improved understanding of the pathophysiology of systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) opens new therapeutic avenues in its treatment .
background	The efficacy of disease-modifying agents remains limited however , and none has yet demonstrated its ability to improve survival in a prospective randomized trial .
outcome	of traditional antifibrotic agents such as colchicine and D-penicillamine are disappointing .
outcome	Cyclophosphamide ( CYC ) seems to be beneficial in interstitial lung disease associated with SSc .
outcome	Organ-specific therapies may produce dramatic benefits .
outcome	Examples include angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors for renal failure and epoprostenol for primary pulmonary hypertension .
other	Several new therapeutic approaches are currently under evaluation , including high-dose CYC followed by peripheral stem cell transplantation , vasodilators , and antiinflammatory and antifibrotic agents .
outcome	Physical therapy and rehabilitation may help to treat disability and loss of function in SSc patients .

###16483576
background	This paper discusses topics related to the planning and implementation of non-randomised clinical studies in orthopaedics .
background	A well-conducted case-series is appropriate to demonstrate the safety of a surgical intervention .
background	The case-series design involves the provision of a defined intervention to a group of patients with the ultimate objective of describing the final outcome , including such occurrences as complications .
background	There is no alternative procedure serving as a control .
background	The key aspects are to ensure enrolment of all eligible patients and to obtain a sufficiently large sample size to allow precise and valid estimation of complication risks .
background	Targeted complications should be clearly defined and fully documented during a pre-defined follow-up period .
background	Loss to follow-up should be minimised .
background	Comparative studies are required to demonstrate treatment effectiveness .
background	If a randomised controlled trial ( RCT ) is not feasible , an observational design such as a cohort or a case-control study should be considered .
background	In observational designs , the treatment decision is made by the surgeons .
background	In a case-control study , patients are selected based on their outcomes and their treatment or exposure status is recorded retrospectively .
background	In a cohort study , groups of patients are selected based on their treatment and are followed for outcomes .
background	There are numerous variations .
background	Data can be collected prospectively or retrospectively ; comparison groups may be concurrent or non-concurrent , or studied at different locations .
background	The optimal design is tailored to clinical questions and research settings , while keeping in mind the respective methodological strengths and weaknesses of available options .
background	The strength of the observational study is its proximity to daily clinical practice .
background	The limitations are the possibility of numerous biases and confounding factors .
background	Despite many challenges to the internal validity of non-randomised studies in orthopaedics surgery , it is possible to use such designs in order to provide reasonably valid answers to clinically important questions .

###12875916
background	Orexin-A has been reported to produce an analgesic effect in the hot plate test and in the inflammatory pain models .
population	In the present study , the authors examined the effect of orexin-A on the mechanical allodynia induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation ( a model of neuropathic pain ) in the rat .
intervention	Partial sciatic nerve ligation is created by tight ligation of one-third or one-half of the right sciatic nerve .
intervention	Orexin-A was administered intrathecally or intracerebroventricularly 7 days after a partial sciatic nerve injury .
intervention	Either intrathecal or intracerebroventricular injection of orexin-A attenuated the level of mechanical allodynia induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation .
outcome	These data suggest that either intrathecal or intracerebroventricular injection of orexin-A is a new therapeutic approach to treating mechanical allodynia caused by nerve injury .

###16410811
background	To assess the effect of assisted conception ( AC ) on retinopathy of prematurity ( ROP ) and ROP screening .
other	Follow-up to the study by McKibbin et al. .
population	Retrospective study utilising computerised databases of ROP screening , live births , AC and multiple births between 1st April 2000 and 31st August 2003 at St James 's Hospital ( SJUH ) Leeds .
other	chi ( 2 ) tests of significance were used .
outcome	ROP screening was undertaken in 11/265 ( 4.2 % ) of AC births versus 1.6 % of all SJUH births .
outcome	This is significantly less than the 20.3 % of AC babies screened in McKibbin et al study ( P = < 0.01 ) .
outcome	There was no ROP detected in the 11 AC babies .
outcome	Of all AC births , 36.9 % were one of twins and 1.5 % from triplet births compared to 46.0 % one of twins and 18.6 % one of triplets in McKibbin 's study .
outcome	The percentage of AC babies requiring ROP screening has fallen since McKibbin et al study which was performed between August 1991 and December 1994 .
outcome	This appears to be at least partially due to the reduced multiple birth rates .
outcome	This reduction in the multiple birth rates follows evidence that reducing the number of embryos transferred does not reduce the number of couples taking home a baby and Human Fertility and Embryology Association guidelines recommending ` no more than two e
outcome	Changes in clinical practice at SJUH have significantly reduced the likelihood of AC babies requiring ROP screening and developing ROP .

###18372377
background	Evaluating interventions in palliative care using randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) has helped advance the specialty and create an evidence base for the delivery of care .
background	RCTs , however , are notoriously difficult to conduct in palliative care , raising a variety of practical , ethical and moral dilemmas .
background	Mixed-methods research , which combines qualitative research and RCTs , offers a potential solution to these problems .
background	This paper begins by examining the theoretical basis for combining the two approaches , before reviewing the specific role qualitative research could play in planning , conducting and implementing trials .
background	The paper then goes on to explore how palliative care research currently uses the mixed-methods approach , by searching the trials included in six Cochrane Systematic Reviews ( n = 146 ) on the incorporation of qualitative research .
outcome	Only one trial undertook qualitative research .
outcome	These findings reflect some of the challenges facing mixed-methods research , which include lack of experience in a research team , the problems of obtaining funding and difficulties in publishing .
outcome	The paper concludes that while combining qualitative and quantitative research is not a panacea for methodological problems in palliative care research , with careful planning and integration , the approach may enhance the clinical and ethical utility of tr

###18254069
background	Knee osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a progressive disease that initially affects the articular cartilage .
background	Observational studies have shown benefits for arthroscopic debridement ( AD ) on the osteoarthritic knee , but other recent studies have yielded conflicting results that suggest AD may not be effective .
other	To identify the effectiveness of AD in knee OA on pain and function .
other	We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) ( The Cochrane Library Issue 2 , 2006 ) ; MEDLINE ( 1966 to August , 2006 ) ; CINAHL ( 1982 to 2006 ) ; EMBASE ( 1988 to 2006 ) and Web of Science ( 1900 to 2006 ) and screened the bibliographies , reference lists and cited web sites of papers .
population	We included randomised controlled trials ( RCT ) or controlled clinical trials ( CCT ) assessing effectiveness of AD compared to another surgical procedure , including sham or placebo surgery and other non-surgical interventions , in patients with a diagnosis o
other	The main outcomes were pain relief and improved function of the knee .
other	Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion , assessed trial quality and extracted the data .
other	Results are presented using weighted mean difference ( WMD ) for continuous data and relative risk ( RR ) for dichotomous data , and the number needed to treat to benefit ( NNTB ) or harm ( NNTH ) .
outcome	Three RCTs were included with a total of 271 patients .
outcome	They had different comparison groups and a moderate risk of bias .
outcome	One study compared AD with lavage and with sham surgery .
outcome	Compared to lavage the study found no significant difference .
outcome	Compared to sham surgery placebo , the study found worse outcomes for AD at two weeks ( WMD for pain 8.7 , 95 % CI 1.7 to 15.8 , and function 7.7 , 95 % CI 1.1 to 14.3 ; NNTH = 5 ) and no significant difference at two years .
outcome	The second trial , at higher risk of bias , compared AD and arthroscopic washout , and found that AD significantly reduced knee pain compared to washout at five years ( RR 5.5 , 95 % CI 1.7 to 15.5 ; NNTB = 3 ) .
outcome	The third trial , also at higher risk of bias , compared AD to closed-needle lavage , and found no significant difference .
outcome	There is ` gold ' level evidence that AD has no benefit for undiscriminated OA ( mechanical or inflammatory causes ) .

###10645355
population	In a randomised prospective controlled trial of 52 patients aged 16 to 65 we compared early non-weightbearing ankle mobilisation with ankle immobilisation following surgical treatment of bimalleolar ankle fractures .
outcome	At 3 months there was no significant difference between the two groups in the range of ankle movements or pain .
outcome	There was however a significant difference in the gait pattern with a higher proportion of cases in the early ankle mobilisation group having a symmetrical gait ( P = 0.0001 ) .

###15719427
background	The execution of sequential arm movements is critical to activities of daily living such as eating and grooming .
background	It is known that movement sequences are bradykinetic in people with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) and that antiparkinson medications improve the speed of movement sequences .
background	However , it is unclear how muscle activity is modulated during sequential movements and what effect antiparkinson medications have on muscle modulation .
population	We studied subjects with PD and age - and gender-matched control subjects making sequential reaching movements .
intervention	Subjects with PD were tested before and after their morning dose of antiparkinson medications ( levodopa and/or dopamine agonists ) .
other	We examined the effect of antiparkinson medications on the modulation of muscle activity ( i.e. , the ability to activate and inhibit each muscle throughout the course of a sequence ) .
outcome	Results showed that the group with PD , before medication , moved more slowly and modulated muscle activity poorly compared to the control group .
outcome	Antiparkinson medications improved movement speed as expected , although sequential movements remained slower than normal even after medication .
outcome	Medication improved the ability to activate agonist muscle activity but did not improve the ability to inhibit antagonist activity .
outcome	Instead , antagonist activity was also increased , resulting in minimal improvements in muscle modulation during sequential reaching movements .

###18089672
population	The present study examined the relationship between the worsening of symptoms across a 3-5-year period of time and self-reported physical activity in a sample of 51 individuals with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
other	Of the 51 participants , 35 reported a worsening of symptoms over the 3-5-year period of time .
outcome	The worsening of symptoms was associated with significantly and moderately lower levels of self-reported physical activity independent of depression and EDSS scores and MS-disease course ( P = 0.04 ) .
outcome	This study provides novel evidence that a worsening of symptoms is associated with lower levels of physical activity in individuals with MS.

###15313946
background	Heart rate variability ( HRV ) as an indirect autonomic assessment provides prognostic information when measured over short time periods in patients with heart failure .
background	Long-term continuous HRV can be measured from an implantable device , but the clinical value of these measurements is unknown .
population	A total of 397 patients with New York Heart Association class III or IV heart failure were studied .
outcome	Of these , 370 patients had information from their implanted cardiac resynchronization device for mortality risk stratification , and 288 patients had information for measured parameters ( ie , HRV , night heart rate , and patient activity ) and clinical event a
outcome	Continuous HRV was measured as the standard deviation of 5-minute median atrial-atrial intervals ( SDAAM ) sensed by the device .
outcome	SDAAM < 50 ms when averaged over 4 weeks was associated with increased mortality risk ( hazard ratio 3.20 , P = 0.02 ) and SDAAM were persistently lower over the entire follow-up period in patients who required hospitalization or died .
outcome	SDAAM decreased a median of 16 days before hospitalization and returned to baseline after treatment .
outcome	Automated detection of decreases in SDAAM was 70 % sensitive in detecting cardiovascular hospitalization , with 2.4 false-positives per patient-year of follow-up .
outcome	This study demonstrates that SDAAM continuously measured from an implanted cardiac resynchronization device is lower in patients at high mortality and hospitalization risk .
outcome	SDAAM declines as patient status decompensates .
outcome	Continuous long-term SDAAM may be a useful tool in the clinical management of patients with chronic heart failure .

###15799818
background	Reconstruction and stabilization of the cervical spine after vertebrectomy is an important goal in the surgical management of spinal metastasis .
background	The authors describe their reconstruction technique using a titanium cage-Silastic tube construct injected with polymethylmethacrylate ( PMMA ) augmented by an anterior cervical plate .
other	The surgical results using this technique are reviewed .
population	Six patients ranging from 43 to 70 years of age underwent resection of metastatic tumor in the cervical spine followed by cage-assisted PMMA reconstruction of the anterior spinal column .
other	The following reconstruction technique was performed .
intervention	A Silastic tube is incised longitudinally and placed circumferentially around a titanium cage with the opening facing anteriorly .
intervention	The cage-Silastic tube construct is carefully tapped into the corpectomy defect and filled with PMMA .
intervention	The final construct is then augmented with anterior cervical plate fixation .
outcome	Two patients required additional posterior stabilization with lateral mass screws and rods .
outcome	All patients achieved immediate stabilization , restoration of vertebral body height and normal lordosis , and preservation of the ability to walk independently .
outcome	Five patients experienced significant palliation of biomechanical neck pain .
outcome	There were no complications of neurological worsening , postoperative hematoma , wound infection , subsidence , graft dislodgement , or construct failure during a follow-up period of 1 to 19 months ( mean , 6.8 mo ) .
outcome	Titanium cage-assisted PMMA reconstruction augmented with an anterior cervical plate is an effective means of reconstruction after tumor resection in patients with cervical spinal metastasis .
outcome	The Silastic tube holds the PMMA within the cage and protects the spinal cord from potential thermal injury .

###17567818
background	Galanin expression markedly increases in the dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) after sciatic nerve axotomy and modulates pain behavior and regeneration of sensory neurons .
population	Here , we describe transgenic mice expressing constructs with varying amounts of sequence upstream of the murine galanin gene marked by LacZ .
outcome	The 20 kb region upstream of the galanin gene recapitulates the endogenous expression pattern of galanin in the embryonic and adult intact DRG and after axotomy .
outcome	In contrast , 1.9 kb failed to drive LacZ expression in the intact DRG or after axotomy .
outcome	However , the addition of an additional 2.7 kb of 5 ' flanking DNA ( 4.6 kb construct ) restored the expression in the embryonic DRG and in the adult after axotomy .
outcome	Sequence analysis of this 2.7 kb region revealed unique 18 and 23 bp regions containing overlapping putative Ets - , Stat - , and Smad-binding sites , and adjacent putative Stat - and Smad-binding sites , respectively .
outcome	Deletion of the 18 and 23 bp regions from the 4.6 kb construct abolished the upregulation of LacZ expression in the DRG after axotomy but did not affect expression in the embryonic or intact adult DRG .
outcome	Also , a bioinformatic analysis of the upstream regions of a number of other axotomy-responsive genes demonstrated that the close proximity of putative Ets - , Stat - , and Smad-binding sites appears to be a common motif in injury-induced upregulation in gene

###14993930
background	Nociceptive pain alerts the body to potential or actual tissue damage .
background	By contrast , neuropathic pain , which results from injury or damage to the nervous system , persists long after all signs of the original injury have disappeared .
background	This type of maladaptive pain presents a significant clinical problem , as it responds poorly or unpredictably to classical analgesics .
background	There is also no single , uniformly well-tolerated drug that is reliably helpful .
background	Current understanding of the etiology of neuropathic pain reveals seven potential targets for therapeutic intervention .
background	These are : 1 ) ectopic activity in damaged peripheral nerves ; 2 ) increased excitability in spinal dorsal horn neurons ; 3 ) restoration or augmentation of GABAergic inhibition in the dorsal horn ; 4 ) supraspinal and affective mechanisms ; 5 ) alterations in the
background	Current therapeutic approaches , using drugs such as gabapentin , anticonvulsants , ketamine or methadone , and potential new approaches are discussed in the context of these seven drug targets .

###11961471
background	With the growth in enrollment of Medicare patients in HMOs the effectiveness of care received by Medicare/HMO patients continues to be of concern .
background	By considering the relationship of insurance to stage at diagnosis , this study inquires whether HMOs emphasize early diagnosis of colorectal cancer to a greater extent than FFS plans , if particular HMO types ( group/nongroup models ) are more successful in
population	Data for 1329 Medicare patients with colorectal cancer , diagnosed 1987 to 1993 , and residing in northern California , were acquired from a population-based cancer registry .
other	Insurance included two types of Medicare HMOs ( group and nongroup model ) and three fee-for-service ( FFS ) categories Medicare with private supplement , Medicare/Medicaid , and Medicare only .
other	The relationships of insurance to AJCC stage at diagnosis and of insurance to survival following diagnosis were examined , respectively , with logistic regression models and survival analysis ( controlling for age , ethnicity , tumor location , educational level , sex , and hospital type ) .
outcome	Likelihood of early stage colorectal cancer was greater for Medicare patients in nongroup model HMOs or having private FFS supplements than for those in group model HMOs , Medicare/Medicaid , or Medicare alone .
outcome	All-cause and colorectal cancer mortality did not differ significantly among Medicare patients with group model HMO , nongroup model HMO and private FFS supplements .
outcome	Medicare/Medicaid patients experienced significantly greater all-cause mortality than private FFS patients .
outcome	Differences within this study population in early stage diagnosis of colorectal cancer and breast cancer , respectively , by type of Medicare supplemental insurance may be attributable to which preventive screening measures are included in health plan repor

###15526806
background	Gas exchange during exercise in patients with cystic fibrosis ( CF ) is characterised by an elevated physiological deadspace to tidal volume ratio .
background	While this has been attributed to alveolar ventilation perfusion mismatch , there are other potential causes of the high proportion of wasted ventilation , including factors relating to the volume and the ventilation of the airway deadspace .
intervention	CF ( n = 6 , F = 1 , FEV1 26-63 % pred ) and control ( n = 6 , F = 2 ) subjects completed steady-state exercise on a cycle ergometer .
other	Gas exchange was measured breath-by-breath and the volume of the airway deadspace ( V ( Daw ) ) determined using the equal areas method .
other	Exercise data were interpolated to a CO2 output of 0.7 l/min .
outcome	V ( Daw ) was similar in the two groups both at rest and during exercise .
outcome	However , the airway deadspace ventilation ( V ( Daw ) ) ( median ( inter-quartile range ) ) , patients , 6.8 ( 5.1-7 .1 ) l/min ; controls , 4.9 ( 3.5-5 .6 ) l/min , P < 0.05 ) was significantly greater in the CF group due to a greater respiratory frequency .
outcome	These results indicate that in CF patients , abnormally increased V ( Daw ) is an important contributor to the total ( physiological ) deadspace ventilation .
outcome	Exercise performance in CF might be enhanced by efforts directed at facilitating an increase in exercise tidal volume and therefore the adoption of a more efficient pattern of breathing .

###10819426
background	Language skills undergo rapid development during the early childhood years , so that by the time children start school they are competent communicators with well established syntactic , semantic and pragmatic abilities for their age .
background	Little is known about the effects of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) on the acquisition of these language skills during the early childhood years .
study design	This study used a prospective , cross-sectional design to compare the language abilities of young children following their head injury .
population	Fifteen brain injured children , aged between 4-6 years , were divided into three injury groups depending on severity of injury , i.e. mild , moderate and severe , and compared with a matched community control group .
other	They were assessed within 3 months of sustaining their injury on a range of expressive and receptive language tests , and free speech conversation samples , which were analysed pragmatically and syntactically .
outcome	Results indicated that the severe group performed most poorly on language tasks .
outcome	It is suggested that linguistic evaluation is an important component of follow up at least for the severe head injured population .

###17946956
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) occurs when brain tissue is subjected to stresses and strains at high rates and magnitudes , yet the mechanisms of injury and cellular thresholds are not well understood .
background	The events that occur at the time of and immediately after an insult are hypothesized to initiate cell dysfunction or death following a critical cell strain and strain rate .
population	We analyzed neuronal plasma membrane disruption in two in vitro injury models-fluid shear stress delivered to planar cultures and shear strain induction of 3-D neural cultures .
outcome	We found that insult severity positively correlated with the degree of membrane disruptions in a heterogeneous fashion in both cell configurations .
outcome	Furthermore , increased membrane permeability led to increases in electrophysiological disturbance .
outcome	Specifically , cells that exhibited increased membrane permeability did not fire random action potentials , in contrast to neighboring cells that had intact plasma membranes .
outcome	This approach provides an experimental framework to investigate injury tolerance criteria as well as mechanistically driven therapeutic strategies .

###18174698
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is the most common cause of death and disability in young adults living in industrialised countries .
background	Over the last few years , there has been an increasing awareness that hypopituitarism can complicate TBI in a significant proportion of survivors : at least 25 % of TBI survivors develop one or more pituitary hormone deficiencies .
background	This remarkably high frequency has changed the traditional concept that hypopituitarism was a rare complication of TBI and suggests that most cases of posttraumatic hypopituitarism remain undiagnosed and untreated in clinical practice .
background	It is therefore reasonable to infer that posttraumatic hypopituitarism may make an important contribution to the high rates of physical and neuropsychiatric morbidity in patients with head injury .
outcome	There is clearly a need for identification as well as appropriate and timely management of hormone deficiencies in TBI patients to reduce morbidity , aid recovery and rehabilitation and avoid the long-term complications of pituitary failure .

###17520295
background	Acute unilateral L5 pedicle fracture associated with a pre-existing contralateral spondylolysis is a rare lesion .
population	We report a case in a non-competitive 12-year-old boy .
other	We present the clinical , radiological and specific management of this rare condition .
other	The clinical and radiological draft of this patient was reviewed .
other	The follow-up was 30 months after fracture healing .
other	Some cases reported in the literature were analyzed and our clinical findings and therapeutic strategy was compared and discussed .
outcome	Non-operative treatment was done including full-time bracing in a modified Boston brace incorporating one thigh for 3 months .
outcome	Plain radiographs and computed tomographic ( CT ) - scan performed at 3 and 6 months showed progressive healing of the pedicle fracture and no modification of the contralateral isthmic spondylolytic lesion .
outcome	At final follow-up , the patient was asymptomatic and resumed all his activities .
outcome	In skeletally immature patients , we think that conservative treatment should be considered as a treatment option for this unusual injury .

###10847225
background	To investigate the factors influencing the choice of treatment for ectopic pregnancy and to compare the subsequent fertility rates of radical , conservative-surgical or medical treatments .
population	Population-based study of 835 ectopic pregnancies registered between 1992 and 1996 .
other	Auvergne Ectopic Pregnancy Register ( France ) .
population	Four hundred and seventy-six women with tubal ectopic pregnancy who were not using contraception at the time of conception .
other	Subsequent fertility was studied for the 291 women who attempted to conceive again .
other	Comparison of reproductive outcomes according to ectopic pregnancy treatment .
other	Cumulative fertility curves were calculated by the Kaplan-Meier estimator and compared by log rank test for univariate analysis and by Cox regression to take into account confounding variables .
other	Recurrence and fertility rates after ectopic pregnancy .
intervention	The first treatment given was ` radical ' for 178 women ( 37 % ) , ` conservative-surgical ' for 262 ( 55 % ) , and ` medical ' for 35 ( 8 % ) .
outcome	The treatment failed in 1 % for radical treatment , 5 % for conservative-surgical treatment , and 36 % for medical treatment .
outcome	The two-year cumulative rate of recurrence was 27 % with no significant difference between treatments .
outcome	For women with previous infertility factors ( in particular diseased contralateral tube ) , the treatments differed significantly , with the rate of intrauterine pregnancy lower for radical treatment and higher for medical treatment than for conservative-surg
outcome	For women with no infertility factor , there was no significant difference between treatments .
outcome	These results should be confirmed in a controlled trial .
outcome	The results of this study provide the elements necessary to plan such a trial .

###12170759
background	Most of the predisposition to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer has been attributed to inherited defects in two tumor suppressor genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 .
population	To explore the contribution of BRCA1 mutations to hereditary breast cancer among Indian women , we examined the coding sequence of the BRCA1 gene in 14 breast cancer patients with a positive family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer .
intervention	Mutation analysis was carried out using conformation sensitive gel electrophoresis ( CSGE ) followed by sequencing .
outcome	Three mutations ( 21 % ) in the BRCA1 gene were identified .
outcome	Two of them are novel mutations of which one is a missense mutation in exon 7 near the RING finger domain , while the other is a one base pair deletion in exon 11 which results in protein truncation .
outcome	The third mutation , 185 delAG , has been previously described in Ashkenazi Jewish families .
outcome	To our knowledge this is the first report of a study of germline BRCA1 mutation analysis in familial breast cancer in India .
outcome	Our data from 14 different families suggests a lower prevalence but definite involvement of germline mutations in the BRCA1 gene among Indian women with breast cancer and a family history of breast cancer .

###16235281
background	Surgical investigations and interventions account for large health care utilisation and costs , but the scientific evidence for most procedures is still limited .
background	Degenerative conditions affecting the lumbar spine are variously described as lumbar spondylosis or degenerative disc disease ( which we regarded as one entity ) and may be associated with back pain and associated leg symptoms , instability , spinal stenosis
intervention	The objective of this review was to assess current scientific evidence on the effectiveness of surgical interventions for degenerative lumbar spondylosis .
other	We searched CENTRAL , MEDLINE , PubMed , Spine and ISSLS abstracts , with citation tracking from the retrieved articles .
other	We also corresponded with experts .
other	All data found up to 31 March 2005 are included .
other	Randomised ( RCTs ) or quasi-randomised trials of surgical treatment of lumbar spondylosis .
other	Two authors assessed trial quality and extracted data from published papers .
other	Additional information was sought from the authors if necessary .
outcome	Thirty-one published RCTs of all forms of surgical treatment for degenerative lumbar spondylosis were identified .
outcome	The trials varied in quality : only the more recent trials used appropriate methods of randomization , blinding and independent assessment of outcome .
outcome	Most of the earlier published results were of technical surgical outcomes with some crude ratings of clinical outcome .
outcome	More of the recent trials also reported patient-centered outcomes of pain or disability , but there is still very little information on occupational outcomes .
outcome	There was a particular lack of long term outcomes beyond two to three years .
outcome	Seven heterogeneous trials on spondylolisthesis , spinal stenosis and nerve compression permitted limited conclusions .
outcome	Two new trials on the effectiveness of fusion showed conflicting results .
outcome	One showed that fusion gave better clinical outcomes than conventional physiotherapy , while the other showed that fusion was no better than a modern exercise and rehabilitation programme .
outcome	Eight trials showed that instrumented fusion produced a higher fusion rate ( though that needs to be qualified by the difficulty of assessing fusion in the presence of metal-work ) , but any improvement in clinical outcomes is probably marginal , while there
outcome	Three trials with conflicting results did not permit any conclusions about the relative effectiveness of anterior , posterior or circumferential fusion .
outcome	Preliminary results of two small trials of intra-discal electrotherapy showed conflicting results .
outcome	Preliminary data from three trials of disc arthroplasty did not permit any firm conclusions .
outcome	Limited evidence is now available to support some aspects of surgical practice .
outcome	Surgeons should be encouraged to perform further RCTs in this field .

###15354245
background	The guidelines of the German Orthopaedic Societies regarding the treatment of lateral elbow epicondylitis were analysed on the ground of recently published reviews or randomised placebo-controlled trials ( RCT ) .
background	For the acute phase , reviews or RCTs failed to show a clinical effect beyond placebo if follow-up was extended over 6 weeks .
background	For the chronic phase a current Cochrane review failed to identify any controlled trial regarding surgical procedures during the last decades .
outcome	Without an adequate control group , it is not possible to draw any meaningful conclusions about the value of this modality of treatment .
outcome	Therefore surgery is not indicated before repetitive low-energy extracorporeal shock wave therapy ( ESWT ) has been applied .
outcome	This novel treatment , under strictly standardized conditions , showed effects beyond placebo in independent randomised placebo-controlled trials for follow-up periods of 3 and 6 months .
outcome	To date there exists no evidence-based therapeutic algorithm for the treatment of acute and chronic tennis elbow .
outcome	Even medium-term effects should be regarded as either a placebo effect or natural regression to the mean .

###9870569
background	Metastatic bone disease is a frequent cause of morbidity in advanced cancer patients with a subsequent high incidence of skeletal complications ( fractures , hypercalcemia , spinal cord compression ) and severe pain .
background	The osteolytic process is mainly characterized by an osteoclastic activity of bone resorption and inflammatory activity provoked by various cytokines and prostaglandins .
background	Bisphosphonates represent a new class of drugs with inhibitory activity on bone resorption and on inflammatory processes which revealed themselves to be efficacious in a series of clinical conditions such as tumour-induced hypercalcemia , Paget 's disease ,
population	The aim of this review of the literature is to show the analgesic efficacy of the different bisphosphonates in phase III studies carried out on patients with metastatic bone disease .
other	Medline and Cancerlit database from January 1984 to February 1998 have been considered .
outcome	From the analysis of the published studies it appears that bisphosphonates and , in particular , intravenous Disodium Pamidronate , are not only able to slow down the progression of the disease and to reduce the onset of skeletal complications but also have
outcome	Bisphosphonates represent a further valid therapy to add to an already consolidated list of therapies such as radio , chemo and endocrine therapy , analgesic drugs , orthopaedic and physiatric in the pain management of patients with bone metastases .
outcome	These drugs meet with the patients ' compliance , are well-tolerated as well as having a good cost/efficacy profile .
outcome	It still remains to be seen if the newer and more potent bisphosphonates such as Ibandronate and Zoledronate can be administered differently from the intravenous route such as by mouth or by patch which are readily accepted by the patient and , moreover , i

###2613407
population	A very low calorie formula diet ( VLCD ) with physician and dietitian support was used to achieve and maintain weight loss in 408 overweight patients , referred by consultants because of concurrent health problems .
background	The patients had failed to lose weight on conventional diets , and their obesity was considered a significant risk factor in their health .
outcome	Using 330 or 405 kcal formula diets , the mean rate of weight loss in men was 1.87 kg/week and in women 1.27 kg/week .
outcome	Women sustained the dieting process over longer periods , with a time to maximum weight loss of 5-72 weeks ( mean 24 ) compared to the achievement in men of 4-40 weeks ( mean 12.5 ) .
outcome	Sixteen per cent of the patients dropped out in the first 3 weeks .
outcome	Of the remaining 84 per cent , weight loss to within 80-100 per cent BMI 25 ( target weight ) was achieved by 53 per cent men and 46 per cent women who had completed more than 5 weeks dieting .
outcome	Women were more complaint than men at weight maintenance follow-up and 58 per cent of the start group were observed for more than 50 weeks ( 50-164 ) , only 10 per cent experiencing weight regain of 20-70 per cent .
outcome	Physician support was required to adjust medication in patients attending .
outcome	Complications of obesity were remarkably improved after weight loss .

###9576962
background	Selective exposure to x-irradiation during infancy , from postnatal days ( PND ) 2-11 in the rat , results in severe hippocampal granule cell hypoplasia .
background	Preweanling ( PND 17-18 ) rats , which suffer such hippocampal granule-cell agenesis , show deficits in patterned single alternation ( PSA ) , a form of memory-based learning .
background	Deficits in short-term memory along with increased arousal have been suggested as characteristic of children diagnosed with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
background	We report here on the ameliorating effects of D-amphetamine , a drug commonly used in the treatment of ADHD , before Ritalin , on PSA , after infantile ( PND 2-15 ) exposure to x-irradiation .
outcome	After i.p. injections of 0.3 mg/kg D-amphetamine , the onset and magnitude of the PSA memory-based discrimination in the x-irradiated preweanling rats was restored to about the level of controls .
outcome	These results , showing alleviation of x-irradiation-related deficits in short-term memory by D-amphetamine injections , along with our earlier and present results , showing substantial deficits after x-irradiation alone , encourage the hypothesis that hippoc

###6215653
population	Liquid crystal thermography was used to determine low back skin temperature patterns in 62 patients hospitalized for low back pain and 22 college volunteers with no previous history of back pain .
other	The patients were separated into four groups according to their diagnoses at discharge patients with 1 ) degenerative discogenic lesions , 2 ) acquired lesions , 3 ) congenital and developmental lesions , 4 ) back pain resulting from unknown causes .
outcome	No significant differences were found between the average equilibrated thermogram temperatures of the control subjects ( 32.4 + / - 0.5 degrees C ) and patient groups .
outcome	However , the temperature gradients found on the thermograms of patients with discogenic lesions ( 3.1 + / - 0.6 degrees C ) and acquired lesions ( 3.1 + / - 1.0 degrees C ) were significantly greater ( p less than .05 ) than those of the pain-free subjects ( 2.5 + / -
outcome	Tenderness to palpation was associated with elevated skin temperatures in 80 percent of the patients studied .
outcome	This study suggests that liquid crystal thermography may be a potentially useful tool for localizing soft tissue trauma in patients with low back pain .

###17126273
background	Congenital muscular torticollis is due to fibrosis of one or both the heads of sternocleidomastoid muscle .
background	This may also involve the platysma , scalene muscles , and the carotid sheath and may be associated with cervical scoliosis .
background	Conventional surgical procedures leave visible scars .
other	Ramirez , who used the posterior part of the traditional face-lift incision , made perhaps the first attempt at concealing scars .
other	Burstein et al. reported a large series of subcutaneous endoscopic release of torticollis through a hairline approach .
other	Sasaki described an endoscopic two-incision , posterior auricular fold and hairline approach .
intervention	A technique of transaxillary subcutaneous endoscopy for the release of the sternocleidomastoid muscle in congenital muscular torticollis is described here .
intervention	This procedure provides direct access to the fibrous bands , enables release without risk of damage to the spinal accessory nerve , external jugular vein , or greater auricular nerve , and leaves no visible neck scars .
outcome	Two cases of congenital muscular torticollis presenting in adulthood were managed successfully by this technique .
outcome	The fibrotic part of sternocleidomastoid muscle was released and the normal range of head motion was restored .
outcome	There were no surgical complications encountered and the patients achieved complete pain free range of movement in six weeks .
outcome	This technique provides direct and quick access , perpendicular to the line of the fibrotic bands , avoids injury to neurovascular structures and does not leave visible neck scars .

###1606479
population	Eight patients with a homogeneous syndrome of progressive symmetric spinobulbar spasticity were studied .
other	Clinical features were limited to those associated with dysfunction of the descending motor tracts and included spastic quadriparesis , pseudobulbar affect , spastic dysarthria , hyper-reflexia and bilateral Babinski signs .
outcome	Lower motor neuron findings were absent and higher cognitive function preserved .
outcome	Median age of onset was 50.5 yrs and median disease duration was 19 yrs .
outcome	Neuropathologic features ( including morphometric analysis ) in the single autopsied case confirmed the selective involvement of the motor cortex .
outcome	There was complete absence of Betz cells from layer 5 of the precentral cortex and the remaining pyramidal cells were significantly smaller than those seen in normal controls .
outcome	Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) revealed atrophy of the precentral gyrus and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scans showed diminished glucose [ 18F ] fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the pericentral cortex .
outcome	Magnetic motor cortex stimulation revealed markedly prolonged central motor conduction times .

###12933820
background	Glucocorticoids ( GCs ) inhibit bone formation in vivo .
background	In MC3T3-E1 osteoblasts , chronic administration of 1 microm dexamethasone ( DEX ) starting at confluency results in > 98 % inhibition of bone morphogenetic protein 2 ( BMP-2 ) expression and apatite mineral deposition .
intervention	Here , it is shown that brief exposure to recombinant human BMP-2 ( rhBMP-2 ) , as short as 6 h , is sufficient to induce irreversible commitment to mineralization in DEX-treated cultures .
outcome	RhBMP-2 dose dependently rescued mineralization but not collagen accumulation in DEX-inhibited cultures .
outcome	The selective restoration of mineralization was evident in the higher mineral to matrix ratios of DEX/rhBMP -2 co-treated cultures compared with control .
outcome	We tested the involvement of the runt-related transcription factor 2 ( Runx2 ) in the DEX inhibition and rhBMP-2 rescue of mineralization .
outcome	Surprisingly , DEX did not decrease Runx2 DNA binding activity , transactivation , or association with the endogenous osteocalcin gene promoter .
outcome	Furthermore , the rhBMP-2 rescue did not involve Runx2 stimulation , suggesting an important role for factors other than Runx2 in BMP-2 action .
outcome	Finally , we studied the differentiation-related cell cycle , which persists during commitment to mineralization in untreated cultures , but is inhibited along with mineralization in DEX-treated cultures .
outcome	Although both rhBMP-2 alone and DEX alone were antimitogenic , rhBMP-2 stimulated this cell cycle in DEX-inhibited cultures .
outcome	In conclusion , brief rhBMP-2 treatment restores mineralization in DEX-inhibited MC3T3-E1 osteoblasts via a mechanism different from Runx2 stimulation .
outcome	This restoration may be functionally related to the accompanying rescue of the differentiation-related cell cycle .
outcome	The efficacy of short term BMP-2 treatment supports the potential of short-lived BMP vectors for skeletal therapy in both traditional and gene therapeutic approaches .

###15852438
background	The increased resistance of better-educated individuals to the cognitive effects of neuropathology has been conceptualized as reflecting brain reserve .
background	This study examined whether educational level influences the degree of neuropsychological impairment associated with late-life depression .
population	The neuropsychological performances of 115 older depressed patients and of 44 comparison subjects of similar age and education were compared as a function of educational level .
outcome	While depressed patients performed worse than comparison subjects on all the measures , the severity of this impairment ( with respect to comparison subjects ) did not differ with the educational level of the patients .
outcome	Brain reserve , as indexed by the patients ' level of education , does not mitigate the cognitive decrements associated with late-life depression .

###11733665
background	Spinal epidural hematoma ( SEH ) is rare and not without serious sequelae .
background	We report a patient who developed Brown-Séquard syndrome from SEH after fluoroscopic-guided cervical steroid injection and favorable response to methylprednisolone ( MP ) .
population	A 56-year-old man reported immediate sharp shooting pain to the upper extremities on introduction of epidural toughy needle .
intervention	A total of 5 mL of 0.2 % ropivacaine and 120 mg methylprednisolone acetate suspension was administered at the C6-7 interspace .
other	Within half an hour , a neurologic deficit occurred at C7-8 and right Brown-Séquard syndrome developed .
intervention	Once SEH was suspected ( 3 hours after onset of neurologic deficit ) , a protocol of high-dose MP intravenous infusion was initiated .
outcome	Immediate incomplete recovery of motor , sensory , and sphincteric functions was noted within 30 minutes of infusion .
outcome	Emergency spinal C6-T2 bilateral decompressive laminectomies and evacuation SEH were performed within an expected delay ( 10 hours from the onset of neurologic deficit ) .
outcome	Fluoroscopic guidance does not take the place of adherence to meticulous technique .
outcome	An unexplained neurologic deficit after invasive spinal procedures should raise the concern for SEH .
outcome	Early recognition and emergent evacuation remain the mainstay management for SEH .
outcome	This case suggests some neuroprotection from MP in cases of cervicothoracic cord compression secondary to traumatic SEH .
outcome	When potential risks for SEH exist , it is advisable not to administer local anesthetic so as not to interfere with neurologic assessment and delaying the diagnosis .

###9354493
population	A total of 61 traumatic cervical cord-injured patients were included in this study .
intervention	Needle electromyography and nerve conduction study were performed at 6 to 24 weeks postinjury .
background	Correlation between the presence of spontaneous electromyographic potentials and the presence of dysesthetic pain , as well as other clinical characteristics including age , gender , level of injury , severity of injury , spasticity , duration of injury , and pe
outcome	Of the 31 patients who had spontaneous electromyographic potentials in their hands , 27 ( 87 % ) had dysesthetic pain in their limbs .
outcome	Only 9 ( 30 % ) of the other 30 patients without spontaneous potentials developed dysesthetic pain .
outcome	A significant correlation ( P < 0.001 ) between the presence of spontaneous electromyographic potential and dysesthetic pain was found .
outcome	The presence of spontaneous electromyographic potentials was also significantly ( P < 0.05 ) correlated with severity of injury but not with age , gender , injury level , duration of injury , operation , and spasticity .
outcome	In conclusion , the presence of spontaneous electromyographic potentials in cervical cord-injured patients was significantly related to the presence of dysesthetic pain .
outcome	They occurred more often in patients with more severe injury .

###16634481
background	Stress ( insufficient ) sacral bone fracture is a seriously painful disease with discussed and disunited therapy .
background	Older women sufferig from osteoporosis create the main group in which this fracture occurs .
background	Clinically , serious pain in sacral area is the most common symptome .
background	This pain may last for a long time when treated conservatively and it can lead to pacient 's immobilization with related comorbidity .
background	In 2 % of patients , neurological complications can be observed .
intervention	Authors present summary of published studies and demonstrate an own case treated using percutaneous sacroplasty .

###8399079
population	We compared the plasma lipoprotein cholesterol , triglyceride , apolipoprotein ( apo ) A-I , apoB , and lipoprotein ( a ) [ Lp ( a ) ] concentrations in a low coronary heart disease ( CHD ) risk population ( n = 440 ) in Taipei with a high CHD risk population ( n = 428 ) in
outcome	Taipei men had significantly lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) ( -20 mg/dL , -14 % , P < .01 ) and apoB ( -7 mg/dL , -6 % , P < .05 ) levels and significantly higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) levels ( 6 mg/dL , 13 % , P < .01
outcome	Taipei women had significantly lower LDL-C ( -18 mg/dL , -15 % , P < .01 ) and higher HDL-C ( 4 mg/dL , 7 % , P < .01 ) levels than Framingham women .
outcome	Median concentrations and distributions of Lp ( a ) by sex were similar in Taipei and Framingham .
outcome	After adjusting for body mass index and smoking status , only differences in total cholesterol and LDL-C levels remained significantly different for both sexes between the two populations ( P < .01 ) .
outcome	Gender differences for lipids within populations were similar .
outcome	After adjusting for age , body mass index , and smoking status , women in both Taipei and Framingham had significantly lower mean triglyceride , LDL-C , and apoB levels and significantly higher HDL-C and apoA-I levels than men .
outcome	Postmenopausal women in Taipei had significantly higher mean total cholesterol , LDL-C , HDL-C , apoA-I , apoB , and Lp ( a ) levels than premenopausal women ( P < .05 ) , whereas in Framingham postmenopausal women had significantly higher total cholesterol , trig
outcome	Our data are consistent with the concept that plasma lipoprotein cholesterol levels ( especially LDL-C ) but not apolipoprotein values explain some of the twofold difference in age-adjusted CHD mortality between these two populations .

###10695568
background	This study evaluated the ability of the Orientation Log ( O-Log ) to predict cognitive outcome at rehabilitation discharge , as well as future neuropsychological outcome .
background	The hypothesis was that patients who demonstrated better orientation upon admission would achieve superior functional cognitive outcome at discharge and on subsequent neuropsychological assessment .
population	Sixty individuals receiving inpatient rehabilitation following a new-onset TBI participated .
other	Orientation data was collected using the O-Log during morning bedside rounds .
other	Outcome data was collected at 6 and 12 months post-injury .
outcome	Significant correlations were found between the O-log and measures of memory , executive functioning , basic verbal skills , and estimated intellectual ability .
outcome	When compared to the other predictor variables , step-wise multiple regression analyses revealed that the minimum O-Log score was the primary significant predictor of performance on six neuropsychological and functional outcome measures .
outcome	Results of this study suggest that evaluating orientation with the O-Log during acute rehabilitation may reflect level of injury severity and aid in predicting cognitive outcome .

###16329081
background	Blunt abdominal trauma with intra-abdominal bleeding is often underdiagnosed or even overlooked at trauma scenes .
background	The purpose of this prospective , multicentre study was to compare the accuracy of physical examination and prehospital focused abdominal sonography for trauma ( PFAST ) to detect abdominal bleeding .
population	Six rescue centres took part in the study from December 2002 to December 2003 , including 230 patients with suspected abdominal injury .
other	The accuracy of physical examination at the scene and PFAST were compared .
other	Later examinations in the emergency department ( ultrasonography and/or computed tomography ) were used as the reference standard .
other	The complete protocol and follow-up was obtained in 202 patients .
outcome	The sensitivity , specificity and accuracy of PFAST were 93 per cent , 99 per cent and 99 per cent , respectively , compared with 93 per cent , 52 per cent and 57 per cent for physical examination at the scene .
outcome	Scanning with PFAST occurred a mean ( s.d. ) 35 ( 13 ) min earlier than ultrasound in the emergency department .
outcome	Abdominal bleeding was detected in 14 per cent of patients .
outcome	Using PFAST led to a change in either prehospital therapy or management in 30 per cent of patients , and a change to admitting hospital in 22 per cent .
outcome	In this study , PFAST was a useful and reliable diagnostic tool when used as part of surgical triage at the trauma scene .

###1623229
background	Areas of current research in the nature and remediation of the long-term sequelae of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) are reviewed .
background	Studies identifying features that predict outcome still greatly outnumber those of efficacy of rehabilitation .
background	A growing interest is in acute biochemical change that may exacerbate poor outcome .

###15318285
study design	A randomised , comparative prospective clinical trial was planned to compare the early response to different rehabilitation methods for adhesive capsulitis taking into consideration the clinical efficacy and the cost effectiveness of the methods .
population	Forty patients with adhesive capsulitis were randomised into two treatment groups .
intervention	The first group ( CYR ) received the Cyriax approach of deep friction massage and mobilisation exercises three times weekly .
intervention	The second group ( PT ) had daily physical therapy including hot pack and short wave diathermy application .
intervention	Both groups concluded their treatments with stretching exercises and were also instructed to a daily home exercise program .
other	The primary end point of the study was to reach 80 % of the normal passive range of motion ( ROM ) of the shoulder in all planes within a period of two weeks .
other	Secondary end points were the overall ROM and pain response ( spontaneous pain , night pain and pain with motion ) to each treatment .
outcome	19 patients in the CYR group ( 95 % ) and 13 patients in the PT group ( 65 % ) reached sufficient ROM at the end of the second week ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	The improvement in shoulder flexion , inner and outer rotation values and the decrease in pain with motion were significantly better in the CYR group after the first week of treatment .
outcome	The Cyriax method of rehabilitation provides a faster and better response than the conventional physical therapy methods in the early phase of treatment in adhesive capsulitis .
outcome	The method is non-invasive , effective and requires fewer hospital visits for a sufficient early response .

###16127282
background	It has been suggested that the characteristics of alexithymia result from deficits in frontal lobe functioning , and the prefrontal cortex is particularly dependent on the catechol O-methyltransferase ( COMT ) pathway .
population	We investigated the relationship between COMT Val108/158Met , serotonin transporter coding sequence ( 5-HT transporter gene-linked polymorphic region ; 5-HTTLPR ) polymorphisms , and alexithymia.The study sample comprised 109 students at the Korea University .
other	All participants were tested using the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale ( TAS-20 ) .
other	They were genotyped for COMT Val108/158Met and 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms .
other	Genotyping was analyzed using polymerase chain reaction .
outcome	Subjects with Val/Val genotype had significantly higher TAS-20 scores than those with Met/Met or Met/Val genotypes .
outcome	However , there was no significant relationship between the 5-HTTLPR genotype and TAS-20 scores .
outcome	This indicates a possible association between the COMT Val108/158Met gene polymorphism and alexithymia .

###8360286
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) produces a tissue-specific decrease in protein levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 ( MAP2 ) , an important cross-linking component of the neuronal cytoskeleton .
background	Because moderate brain hypothermia ( 30 degrees C ) reduces certain neurobehavioral deficits produced by TBI , we examined the efficacy of moderate hypothermia ( 30 degrees C ) in reversing the TBI-induced loss of MAP2 protein .
population	Naive , sham-injured , and moderate ( 2.1 atm ) fluid percussion-injured rats were assessed for MAP2 protein content 3 h post injury using quantitative immunoreactivity measurements .
other	Parallel groups of sham-injured and fluid percussion-injured animals were maintained in moderate hypothermia ( 30 degrees C ) , as measured by temporalis muscle temperature , for MAP2 quantitation 3 h post injury .
outcome	No difference in MAP2 levels was observed between naive and sham-injured normothermic animals .
outcome	Hypothermia alone had no effect on soluble MAP2 levels in sham-injured animals compared with normothermic sham-injured controls ( 88.0 + / - 7.3 % ; p > 0.10 ) .
outcome	Fluid percussion injury dramatically reduced MAP2 levels in the normothermic group ( 44.3 + / - 5.9 % ; p < 0.0005 ) compared with normothermic sham-injured controls .
outcome	No significant reduction of MAP2 was seen in the hypothermic injured group ( 95.2 + / - 4.6 % ; compared with hypothermic sham-injured controls , p > 0.20 ) .
outcome	Although it is premature to infer any causal link , the data suggest that the attenuation of injury-induced MAP2 loss by hypothermia may contribute to its overall neuroprotective action .

###12490274
background	A substantial proportion of the population with congestive heart failure ( CHF ) has concomitant airway disease .
background	Little information exists on the tolerability of carvedilol in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
background	In this study , we assessed the tolerability and efficacy of carvedilol in patients with CHF and concomitant COPD or asthma .
population	Between 1996 and 2000 , a total of 487 patients began receiving open-label carvedilol .
other	Forty-three ( 9 % ) had COPD ( n = 31 ) or asthma ( n = 12 ) .
other	Spirometry supported clinical diagnosis in all , and full pulmonary function testing supported diagnosis in 71 % .
other	Sixty percent began carvedilol therapy in the hospital and underwent measurement of peak expiratory flow rates ( PEFR ) before and after dosing .
outcome	In patients with COPD , mean forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV ( 1 ) ) was 62 % + / - 13 % predicted , reversibility was 4 % + / - 4 % with bronchodilators , and FEV ( 1 ) / FVC was 62 % + / - 8 % .
outcome	Mean PEFR was 325 + / - 115 liter/min before the dose and increased by 17 % 2 hours after the carvedilol dose ( p = 0.04 ) .
outcome	In patients with asthma , mean FEV ( 1 ) was 80 % + / - 17 % predicted , reversibility was 13 % + / - 7 % , and FEV ( 1 ) / FVC was 74 % + / - 11 % .
outcome	Mean PEFR was 407 + / - 161 liter/min before the dose with no significant change 2 hours after the dose .
outcome	Carvedilol was introduced safely in 84 % of patients with COPD , with only 1 patient withdrawn from therapy for wheezing .
outcome	In contrast , only 50 % of patients with asthma tolerated carvedilol .
outcome	Survival at 2.5 years was 72 % .
outcome	In survivors , left ventricular end-diastolic diameter decreased from 76 + / - 11 mm to 72 + / - 14 mm ( p = 0.01 ) , left ventricular end-systolic diameter decreased from 65 + / - 13 mm to 60 + / - 15 mm ( p = 0.01 ) , and fractional shortening increased from 14 % + / - 7
outcome	Patients with CHF and COPD tolerated carvedilol well with no significant reversible airflow limitation , but patients with CHF and asthma tolerated carvedilol poorly .
outcome	The effect of carvedilol on left ventricular dimensions and function in patients with concomitant airway diseases was similar to that seen in our general group of patients .
outcome	Asthma remains a contraindication to beta-blockade .

###9157112
background	The utility of administering only the first deck of 64 cards from the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test ( WCST-64 ) in persons with Alzheimer 's ( AD ) and Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) was evaluated .
population	There were 35 elderly subjects matched for gender , age , and education in each of four groups : controls , PD without dementia ( PDN ) , PD with dementia ( PDD ) , and AD .
other	Additionally , the control and PDN subjects were matched for level of cognitive functioning as were the PDD and AD groups .
outcome	Results revealed that demented persons performed significantly worse than nondemented subjects .
outcome	The WCST-64 was also sensitive to the subtle executive deficits demonstrated by persons with PD without dementia .
outcome	The findings support the use of the WCST-64 in elderly persons with AD and PD .

###19471276
background	The aim of the study was to achieve earlier diagnosis of malignant cord compression ( MCC ) using urgent magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) for selected patients .
population	A comparison was carried out of the current prospective audit of 100 patients referred by a general practitioner or a consultant over 32 months with both a previous national Clinical Research and Audit Group ( CRAG ) prospective audit ( 324 cases of MCC ) and
intervention	A telephone hotline rapid-referral process for patients with known malignancy and new symptoms ( severe nerve root pain + / - severe back pain ) was designed .
other	Patients were considered for urgent MRI after discussion with a senior clinician responsible for the hotline .
other	Appropriate referrals were discussed with radiology and oncology ensuring timely MRI reporting and intervention .
other	The main outcome measures are as follows time from referral to diagnosis ; time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis ; and mobility at diagnosis .
outcome	A total of 50 patients ( 52 % ) of those scanned had either MCC ( 44 ) or malignant nerve root compression ( 6 ) compared with the earlier rate of 23 out of 104 patients ( 22 % ) .
outcome	Ten out of 44 MCC patients ( 23 % ) were paralysed at diagnosis , compared with 149 out of 324 ( 46 % ) in the CRAG audit .
outcome	Time from reporting pain to diagnosis was 32 days compared with 89 days in the CRAG audit .
outcome	Median time from referral to diagnosis was 1 day , again considerably shorter than the CRAG audit time of 15 days ( interquartile ( IQ ) range : 3-66 ) .
outcome	In patients at risk of MCC , fast-track referral with rapid access to MRI reduces time between symptom onset and diagnosis , improves mobility at diagnosis and reduces the number of negative MRI scans .

###15256356
background	Background : Immigrant Muslim women have low rates of health care utilization , especially preventive care such as breast exams , mammograms , and cervical cancer screening .
background	Religious and cultural beliefs , such as the value placed on modesty and premarital virginity , contribute to reluctance to seek health care .
background	In addition , it has been unclear whether discussions of health care behavior that involve sexuality and reproductive health would be welcomed among immigrant Muslim women .
other	Purposes ( 1 ) To examine the impact of religious and cultural values on health care behavior of Muslim women from immigrant backgrounds in the San Francisco Bay Area , particularly with regard to cervical cancer screening ; ( 2 ) To determine whether these women would welcome discussing values and beliefs regarding sexuality and reproductive health .
other	Methods
population	Our key informants were five Muslim women who identified pelvic and Pap smear screening exams as major sources of anxiety for their community , and therefore major barriers to health care .
population	Three focus groups were then convened , including 15 women ages 18-25 , to discuss these issues in more detail .
other	Results
outcome	Many Muslim women from immigrant backgrounds face challenges in obtaining adequate health care due to some common barriers of language , transportation , insurance , and family pressures .
outcome	Additionally , many Muslim women resist screening practices that are the standard in the US but which threaten their cultural and religious values .
outcome	Equally important , many health care professionals contribute to the women 's challenges by making inappropriate recommendations regarding physical exams and reproductive health .

###10431212
background	Much research has been undertaken in the field of pain in an attempt to find an effective treatment .
background	Insights into the underlying mechanisms of pain have been gained from studies using preclinical animal models ( acute stimuli , post-tissue injury and peripheral nerve injury ) and evaluating their similarity with the human condition .
background	In this article , these pain models are summarized and the mechanisms of pain discussed in relation to spinal processing .
background	In the context of this research the therapeutic potential of novel analgesics is highlighted as the future looks forward to the many possibilities that the targeted spinal delivery of drugs can bring .

###16198719
background	Over the past 10 years , studies of the impact of spinal cord injuries on female sexuality have expanded from questionnaire studies in small populations with unknown levels and degrees of injury to laboratory-based analyses of women with known injury patte
background	These studies have provided detailed information on how specific injury patterns affect specific aspects of the female sexual response .
background	Research findings have supported the hypothesis that the sympathetic nervous system is regulatory for psychogenic genital vasocongestion and that orgasm is a reflex response of the autonomic nervous system .
background	Based on these results , a new system for the classification of sexual function in women with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is proposed .
background	Moreover , studies related to the treatment of sexual dysfunction in women with cord injury are reviewed .

###14628397
background	Individuals with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) , most of whom are insured by Medicare , are generally prohibited from enrolling in Medicare managed care plans ( MCPs ) .
background	CMS offered ESRD patients the opportunity to participate in an ESRD managed care demonstration mandated by Congress .
background	The demonstration tested whether managed care systems would be of interest to ESRD patients and whether these approaches would be operationally feasible and efficient for treating ESRD patients .
background	This article examines the structure , implementation , and operational outcomes of the three demonstration sites , focusing on : the structure of these managed care programs for ESRD patients , requirements needed to attract and enroll patients , and the challe

###2133472
background	Fifty-five of 100 chronic headache patients , referred consecutively to a neurologist , exhibited craniomandibular pain during examination of the stomatognathic system .
background	This suggests a possible relationship between the headaches and the condition of the masticatory muscles .
other	The patients were randomly divided into two groups .
intervention	One group was treated by a neurologist and the other by a dentist .
outcome	More of the patients treated by the dentist reported a decreased intensity of the headache ( P less than 0.025 ) or a reduction in medication ( P less than 0.05 ) .
outcome	Changes in headache frequency were also reported more often in the craniomandibular disorder treatment group ( P less than 0.025 ) .

###18231889
background	An earlier publication showed that acupuncture and stabilising exercises as an adjunct to standard treatment was effective for pelvic girdle pain during pregnancy , but the post-pregnancy effects of these treatment modalities are unknown .
background	The aim of this follow-up study was to describe regression of pelvic girdle pain after delivery in these women .
study design	A randomised , single blind , controlled trial .
other	East Hospital and 27 maternity care centres in Göteborg , Sweden .
population	Some 386 pregnant women with pelvic girdle pain .
intervention	Participants were randomly assigned to standard treatment plus acupuncture ( n = 125 ) , standard treatment plus specific stabilising exercises ( n = 131 ) or to standard treatment alone ( n = 130 ) .
other	Primary outcome measures pain intensity ( Visual Analogue Scale ) .
other	Secondary outcome measure assessment of the severity of pelvic girdle pain by an independent examiner 12 weeks after delivery .
outcome	Approximately three-quarters of all the women were free of pain 3 weeks after delivery .
outcome	There were no differences in recovery between the 3 treatment groups .
outcome	According to the detailed physical examination , pelvic girdle pain had resolved in 99 % of the women 12 weeks after delivery .
outcome	This study shows that irrespective of treatment modality , regression of pelvic girdle pain occurs in the great majority of women within 12 weeks after delivery .

###14984499
population	We describe seven patients with multiple myeloma who were treated for acute vertebral body fractures with percutaneous vertebroplasty to a total of 14 vertebrae .
outcome	Six of the seven patients had at least a 50 % decrease in their pain scores at 24 h following vertebroplasty .
outcome	There were no procedure-related complications .
outcome	These encouraging results prompt us to suggest further large-scale evaluation of this procedure in myeloma patients .

###6838786
background	The systematic recording of birthweight seems to have begun in Paris in 1802 and now birthweight is an essential piece of information which is part of the statutory notification of birth .
background	Low birthweight infants make a disproportionate contribution to perinatal mortality .
background	Reducing the incidence of low birthweight is more significant , clinically , than a rise in mean birthweight .
background	Genetic factors , important in determining ultimate size , do not seem to have much influence on birthweight .
background	The variation in birthweight between different ethnic groups is well documented .
other	Meredith ( 1970 ) reviewed the world literature .
background	Low mean birthweights were recorded almost exclusively in Africa , India , and the Far East , whereas the high means occurred mainly among Europeans and white Americans .
background	In areas with high levels of immigration , medical professionals are conscious of the need for accurate information about ethnic groups , but the subject is associated with numerous problems .
background	To compare ethnic groups , for whatever purpose , the epidemiologist needs to negotiate a `` minefield '' of social variables , nutritional uncertainties , and racial sensitivities .
background	The members of a given ethnic group share both a genetic inheritance and a similar geographical , social , and cultural background .
background	All of these must be considered .
background	Immigration has provided an opportunity to study the effect of social and cultural adaptation and to identify those features which are apparently immutable .
background	At the recent conference at the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists on the obstetric problems of Asian immigrants in Britain , it was shown that poor fetal growth is associated with deficiencies of minerals and protein due to dietary habits .
background	Viegas et al. ( 1982 ) suggested that birthweights can be increased by giving protein supplements to Asian women during the 3rd trimester .
background	In Israel the problems are very different .
background	Israel contains a variety of immigrants at various stages of cultural assimilation .
background	Marked differences have been observed between Jewish immigrants from Europe , the US , North Africa , and the Middle East who , although all Jewish , differed in cultural and genetic background .
outcome	Babies born to mothers who came from North Africa were , on the average , heavier than those of other ethnic groups , in spite of lower social class .
outcome	Yet , the birthweight advantage was eroded with adaptation to Israeli culture .
outcome	The issue is whether these differences in birthweight matter.biologybirth weightbody weightcultural backgroundculturedemographic factorsenglandethnic groupsinternational migrationisraelmigrationphysiologypopulationpopulation characteristics

###12503239
background	A positive deviance ( PD ) inquiry identifies uncommon , model practices that a follow-on program can spread .
background	PD has been used to rehabilitate malnourished children , but not for improving newborn health .
background	Save the Children Federation/US ( SC ) conducted newborn PD cycles in communities ( total population about 5,000 each ) in two project areas in Haripur District , Pakistan among Afghan refugees and among local Pakistanis .
background	Each PD cycle included planning , community orientation , situation analysis , PD inquiries , and community feedback with action planning .
other	PD inquiries were in-depth interviews to identify uncommon behaviors among surviving asphyxiated newborns , thriving low birthweight babies , surviving newborns who had danger signs , and normal newborns .
outcome	The Afghan caregivers showed better use of services and some household practices than their Pakistani counterparts , consistent with duration of SC presence ( 15 years vs. 18 months , respectively ) .
outcome	The practices of both groups for clean delivery , thermal control , immediate and exclusive breastfeeding , and fathers ' involvement were weak .
outcome	But PD individuals , families , and/or birth attendants modeled good maternal care and immediate , routine and special newborn care .
outcome	Communities enthusiastically committed to change behavior and form neighborhood support groups for better newborn care , including a demand for hygienic delivery .
outcome	The PD approach for the newborn is more complex than for child nutrition .
outcome	Yet this pilot-test proposed a conceptual framework for household newborn care , suggested tools and methods for information gathering , identified PDs in two settings of different risk , galvanized SC staff to the potential of the approach , mobilized commun

###17978014
background	This symposium aims at summarizing some of the scientific bases for current or planned clinical trials in patients with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
background	It stems from the interactions of four researchers involved in basic and clinical research who presented their work at a dedicated Symposium of the Society for Neuroscience in San Diego .
background	After SCI , primary and secondary damage occurs and several endogenous processes are triggered that may foster or hinder axonal reconnection from supralesional structures .
background	Studies in animals show that some of these processes can be enhanced or decreased by exogenous interventions using drugs to diminish repulsive barriers ( anti-Nogo , anti-Rho ) that prevent regeneration and/or sprouting of axons .
background	Cell grafts are also envisaged to enhance beneficial immunological mechanisms ( autologous macrophages , vaccines ) or remyelinate axons ( oligodendrocytes derived from stem cells ) .
background	Some of these treatments could be planned concurrently with neurosurgical approaches that are themselves beneficial to decrease secondary damage ( e.g. , decompression/reconstructive spinal surgery ) .
background	Finally , rehabilitative approaches based on the presence of functional networks ( i.e. , central pattern generator ) below the lesion combined with the above neurobiological approaches may produce significant functional recovery of some sensorimotor function
background	More work is needed on all fronts , but already the results offer great hope for functional recovery after SCI based on sound basic and clinical neuroscience research .

###7023659
background	Cervical cancer retains its character as a venereal disease associated with infections and multiple sexual partners , but poverty also is important .
background	Precise incidence figures for cervical and endometrial cancer are almost nonexistent because in areas with precise case counts there is rarely accurate knowledge of hysterectomy prevalence .
background	For endometrial cancer little recent attention has been paid to any risk factor except exogenous estrogen .
background	It is now suggested that a low pregnancy rate is a cause , not a consequence , of ovarian pathology leading to cancer .
background	Some progress has been made in separating the epidemiologies of various kinds of ovarian and uterine cancer .
background	A few clues are available regarding the epidemiology of fallopian tube cancers and vaginal cancers other than those produced by maternal stilbestrol .
background	Vulvar cancer becomes common only after the age of 75 and so has been neglected epidemiologically .

###18206306
background	The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 ( TRPV4 ) in mediating mechanical allodynia in rodent models of chronic compression of the dorsal root ganglion ( CCD ) .
intervention	First , the levels of TRPV4 mRNA and protein expression in the dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) were assessed using real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting analysis respectively at 7 , 14 , and 28 days post-CCD .
intervention	Then , the effects of spinal administration of TRPV4 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide ( ODN ) and mismatch ODN on CCD-induced mechanical allodynia were evaluated .
other	Lastly , the calcium responses to hypotonic solution and 4alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate ( 4alpha-PDD ) were assessed following sham surgery , CCD , spinal application of TRPV4 antisense ODN and mismatch ODN .
outcome	The results showed that the levels of TRPV4 mRNA and protein expression increased significantly at 7-28 days post-CCD when compared with the sham group , with the highest level at 7 days post-CCD .
outcome	TRPV4 antisense ODN , but not mismatch ODN , partly reversed the CCD-induced mechanical allodynia .
outcome	Additionally , TRPV4 antisense ODN had no effect on the baseline nociceptive response .
outcome	The percentage of DRG neurons responsive to hypotonic solution and 4alpha-PDD and the fluorescence ratio of calcium response were also enhanced significantly in both the CCD group and the mismatch ODN group .
outcome	These increased responses were significantly inhibited by TRPV4 antisense ODN .
outcome	In conclusion , TRPV4 plays a crucial role in CCD-induced mechanical allodynia .

###10072623
background	We wanted to evaluate the urodynamic changes of radical retropubic prostatectomy in patients with localized prostate cancer and identify specific factors that could influence the postoperative continence status .
population	Sixty-six consecutive patients ( mean age 68 years ) were studied urodynamically within 1 week before surgery , and 44 of them at a mean 7.6 months after radical intervention .
outcome	1 % ) after 6 months and in 43/44 patients ( 97.7 % ) 1 year after surgery .
outcome	Stress incontinence of varying degree improved with time .
outcome	Seven patients demonstrated a moderate incontinence 4 months after radical prostatectomy and 1/7 was still incontinent after 1 year .
outcome	Mean flow rate , maximum detrusor pressure , maximum urethral closure pressure ( at rest and voluntary contraction of the sphincter ) and functional urethral length showed significant changes after surgery .
outcome	Detrusor instability , which was present in 31.8 % of the 66 patients preoperatively , was not responsible for any case of postoperative incontinence .
outcome	The urethral pressure profile was significantly reduced in all patients after surgery .
outcome	The present study indicates that there are no preoperative alterations in bladder function such as detrusor instability to identify patients at risk for postoperative incontinence .
outcome	Postoperative incontinence seems to depend upon sphincteric deficiency as expressed by the reduced pressures in the sphincteric mechanism .

###16013459
background	Lung transplantation is extremely stressful for patients and accompanying support persons .
study design	To improve delivery of care , we designed a cross-sectional study about unmet needs and perceived helpfulness of staff .
population	The sample consisted of 30 adult lung transplant recipients with cystic fibrosis ( and 22 relatives ) and 20 age-matched recipients with other reasons for transplantation ( and 17 relatives ) .
other	Mean survival since transplantation was 5 years .
other	Data were collected via questionnaires ( numerical rating scales and fill-in-the-blank items ) .
outcome	Most patients in both groups were satisfied with staff support ( nurse , doctor ) especially during the acute stage of illness .
outcome	Relatives were less satisfied at all stages .
outcome	Patients ' satisfaction with doctors ' support was higher after than before transplantation , but the opposite was true for relatives .
outcome	Insufficient continuity of care was the most frequent critical comment from patients and support persons .
outcome	Recommendations to improve delivery of care included providing access to psychosocial professionals and broadening the information provided before transplantation .
outcome	Regular screening of customer satisfaction should become routine .
outcome	Particular attention should be paid to support persons .

###16730683
background	Patients with increased cholesterol levels are at increased risk to experience cardiovascular events and to die from vascular disease .
background	Statins have been proven to effectively reduce cholesterol levels and subsequently reduce cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease or at increased risk to develop coronary artery disease .
background	However , in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) , not high , but low levels of cholesterol are related to increased mortality .
background	This phenomenon of reverse epidemiology is not unique to CHF , but also exists in other critical diseases and in the elderly in general as well .
background	An important rationale has been provided by the endotoxin hypothesis , which suggests that cholesterol has an important scavenger function regarding harmful endotoxins .
background	Indeed , these lines of evidence predict a harmful effect of statin treatment in patients with CHF .
background	However , statins not only lower cholesterol , but also have been reported to exhibit a plethora of pleiotropic effects , including reduction of inflammation and improvement of endothelial function .
background	In order to reconcile these contradictory lines of evidence , it is necessary to examine the pharmacological mechanisms of effects of statin treatment .
background	Understanding the pharmacology of statin intervention in CHF models and patients may facilitate the development of therapeutic strategies .
background	In this review , we provide an overview of the known associations between serum cholesterol and CHF in human subjects .
background	In addition , we review the available lines of evidence in animal models and humans predicting both harmful and beneficial effects of statin treatment in CHF .
background	We emphasize the importance of additional research specifically in CHF models and patients .

###8452782
background	Surgery is still the cornerstone of curative treatment for rectal cancer .
background	A combination of postoperative radiation and chemotherapy is the preferred adjuvant treatment for TNM stages II and III rectal cancer .
background	Although studies combining 5-fluorouracil ( 5-FU ) and the investigational agent semustine ( methyl-CCNU ) with radiation showed some survival benefit , preliminary results of recent studies suggest that radiation with 5-FU alone is an effective substitute .
background	Preoperative radiation treatment has several advantages over postoperative radiotherapy .
background	The major disadvantage , that tumors may be downstaged , preventing exact evaluation of treatment results , may be overcome by using rectal ultrasound for preoperative staging .
background	Another promising treatment is preoperative radiation combined with 5-FU as a radiosensitizer and for possible increased systemic effect .
background	Studies are needed to find a better , less toxic radiosensitizer , to explore new chemotherapy combinations with 5-FU ( such as levamisole ) , and to define the proper dose sequence and integration .

###7457512
population	The pregnancy outcomes for 41 patients with high-risk pregnancies who had undergone antepartum fetal heart rate testing between July 5 , 1977 , and April 10 , 1980 , and demonstrated a nonreactive nonstress test ( NST ) and a positive contraction stress test ( C
other	The estimated gestational ages of the time of the positive CST ranged from 28 to 44 weeks ' gestation .
outcome	Of the 41 pregnant women with a positive CST , 30 were allowed to labor .
outcome	The remaining 11 patients underwent immediate cesarean section ( 8 ) or were managed expectantly because of immature phospholipid profiles ( 3 ) .
outcome	In the laboring group , 60.0 % had evidence of late decelerations .
outcome	Cesarean section for persistent late decelerations was necessary in 33.3 % .
outcome	The overall cesarean section rate for the positive CST group was 58.5 % .
outcome	The neonatal outcome for these 41 pregnancies demonstrated 29.3 % of fetuses to be growth retarded and 17.1 % of fetuses to have congenital abnormalities .
outcome	The overall perinatal mortality rate was 7.3 % .
outcome	This investigation further substantiates the increased fetal and neonatal risks associated with a nonreactive NST and a positive CST .
outcome	Induction of labor with direct fetal monitoring should be attempted in a term gestation where the cervix is ready for induction of labor and where rapid intervention by cesarean section is possible .

###10671057
background	Cystic fibrosis ( CF ) is the most common fatal autosomal recessive multisystem disorder , which occurs mainly in European-derived populations .
background	The incidence of CF varies between 1 in 2000 to 3000 live-births in various ethnic groups .
background	The disease is rare in East Asians .
population	Here we report a 9 year old Thai male patient , who was diagnosed to have CF based on recurrent pneumonia , a slow weight gain , pancreatic insufficiency and repeatedly elevated sweat chloride levels by two different methods .
outcome	A comprehensive genetic analysis showed the splicing mutation , 1898 + 1G -- > T , which was apparently of maternal origin .
outcome	Literature search found 39 documented cases of CF patients in East Asians .
outcome	CFTR ( MIM # 602421 ) genotyping was performed in 14 patients including our patient and in 9 of them a CF allele was identified .
outcome	The findings seem to indicate that the splicing mutations , 1898 + 1G -- > T and 1898 + 5G -- > T are more common in East Asian CF patients .

###16252891
background	Stroke-related death is the third most common cause of mortality in Hungary after cardiovascular diseases and cancer .
background	In addition to the unfavourable mortality figures , the consequent development of neurological and psychiatric disorders in stroke patients imposes an enormous burden on the health care system and on the families .
background	Numerous studies are being conducted world wide on the prevention of stroke and other cerebrovascular disorders like chronic hypoperfusion , as well as on acute stroke management and patient rehabilitation issues .
background	As a result , our understanding of the mechanism of hypoxic brain damage steadily increased over the past years and decades which brought along promising achievements both in the field of stroke prevention and therapy .
background	However , these broad-spectrum approaches also made clear that preventing neuronal death and thus reducing neurological damage are complex tasks that can not be successfully resolved by targeting single mechanisms .
other	Therefore , the development of alternative new drugs and clinically applicable complex neuroprotective strategies is warranted .
background	One of the most promising approaches is to create ischemic tolerance in the brain by using pharmacological preconditioning paradigms .
background	These drugs trigger similar events to those initiated by brief ischemic insults that later can make the cerebral tissue resistant to subsequent otherwise lethal stress ( ischemic preconditioning ) .

###9195792
background	The focus on quality and accountability in healthcare has dramatically changed the manner in which clinical services are delivered .
background	The traditional reliance on structural aspects of healthcare delivery has largely given way to a system that closely monitors processes and measures outcomes .
background	Outcomes measurement has intuitive appeal because of its objectivity , global perspective on healthcare , and input from patients , providers , insurers , and payers in the healthcare delivery chain .
background	Nevertheless , outcomes measures are destined to be closely linked to healthcare processes .
background	Data from clinical investigations , interpreted using rigorously developed , evidence-based methodologies , must be used to provide feedback to those designing clinical processes and to continuously improve the quality of healthcare .
background	As outcomes data will be crucial in evaluating the quality of services provided by managed care organizations in relation to their costs , it is imperative that osteopathic physicians become conversant with the history and evolution of outcomes measurement

###9563746
background	The resurgence of tuberculosis ( TB ) has coincided with deteriorating access to care for high-risk populations .
background	We sought to determine what perceived access barriers delayed symptomatic TB patients from obtaining care .
population	In order to do this , we conducted a survey in Los Angeles County , California , using a consecutive sample of patients with active TB as confirmed by the county TB control authority .
other	The measures used in the study were a self-reported delay in seeking care of more than 60 d from symptom onset , a period sufficient to cause skin-test conversion in exposed contacts , and self-reported access barriers .
other	The county TB registry provided supplementary clinical data .
outcome	We found that one in five of the 248 symptomatic respondents ( response rate : 60 % ) delayed obtaining care for > 60 d ( mean = 74 d , SD = 216 d ) .
outcome	During the delay , patients exposed an average of eight contacts .
outcome	As compared with the rest of the sample , delay was more common in those who were unemployed ( 25 % versus 14 % ) , concerned about cost ( 27 % versus 14 % ) , anticipated prolonged waiting-room time ( 26 % versus 14 % ) , believed they could treat themselves ( 31 % versus
outcome	Logistic regression revealed that uncertainty about where to get care , unemployment , and belief in the efficacy of self-treatment independently predicted delay > 60 d.
outcome	Illness severity as measured by chest radiography , sputum smears , and symptoms had little impact on delay .
outcome	We conclude that because access variables such as lack of employment and knowledge about where to obtain care were more closely associated with clinically significant delay than was severity of illness , these results raise concerns about the equity of acc
outcome	The results suggest that improving the availability of services for high-risk groups may substantially reduce TB patients ' delay in obtaining care , and thus may limit the spread of the disease .

###10654674
population	Molecular biology and microscope imaging techniques were used to map putative neural substrates of hyperactivity and attention deficit in an animal model , the juvenile prehypertensive male spontaneously hypertensive rat ( SHR ) .
background	We have studied in anterior forebrain sections of SHR and Wistar-Kyoto Normotensive ( WKY ) controls the spatial distribution of neural markers such as : ( i ) dopamine ( DA ) D-1 and D-2 receptor families by radioligand binding studies ; ( ii ) the Ca2 + / calmodulin
outcome	Microcomputer-assisted high-resolution image analysis showed in the SHR a higher density of DA D-1 receptors and a lower density of D-3 autoreceptors paralleled by a reduced number of elements positive for CaMKII and TFs in a restricted segment of the ant
outcome	The differential rostro-caudal distribution of D-1 receptors and D-3 autoreceptors is discussed in the light of current hypotheses of DA mesocorticolimbic system functioning .
outcome	In addition , the segmental defect was partially reversed by subchronic treatment with a DA re-uptake blocker , Methylphenidate ( MPH ; 3 mg/kg ) and by environmental stimulation during the fifth and sixth postnatal week .
outcome	The findings are consistent with the role of genetic determinants and environmental factors in the phenotypic expression of hyperactivity and attention deficit .

###16223964
background	The authors described the influence of specific medical conditions on clinical remission and response of major depression ( MDD ) in a clinical trial evaluating a care-management intervention among older primary-care patients .
population	Adults age 60 years and older were randomly selected and screened for depression .
intervention	Participants were randomly assigned to Usual Care or to an Intervention with a depression care-manager offering algorithm-based care for MDD .
other	In all , 324 adults meeting criteria for MDD were included in these analyses .
other	Remission and response was defined by a score on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression < 10 and by a decrease from baseline of > or = 50 % , respectively .
other	Medical comorbidity was ascertained through self-report .
other	Cognitive impairment was defined by a score < 24 on the Mini-Mental State Exam ( MMSE ) .
outcome	In Usual Care , rates of remission were faster in persons who reported atrial fibrillation ( AF ) than in persons who did not report AF and slower in persons who reported chronic pulmonary disease than in persons who did not report chronic pulmonary disease ;
outcome	In the Intervention condition , none of the specific chronic medical conditions were significantly associated with outcomes for MDD .
outcome	Because disease-specific findings were observed in persons who received Usual Care but not in persons who received more intensive treatment in the Intervention condition , our results suggest that the association of medical comorbidity and treatment outcom

###8945728
background	Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) is characterized by a markedly decreased number of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons .
background	The pathogenesis of PD is still unknown ; among other etiological factors , immunological abnormalities have been suggested .
background	Recently , interleukin-2 ( IL-2 ) has been hypothesized to be an endogenous cytokine that regulates striatal dopaminergic function .
population	We examined the plasma concentrations of IL-1 , IL-2 , IL-6 and blood levels of ACTH , cortisol and prolactin of 21 patients with PD without any previous treatment .
other	Age - and sex-matched subjects without any neurological or immune disorders were used as controls .
outcome	Significantly higher serum concentrations of IL-2 in patients with PD were found .
outcome	Treatment with antiparkinsonian drugs reduced IL-2 levels in these patients .
outcome	Our results suggested a functional relationship between central dopaminergic and immune systems and a possible involvement of the latter in the pathogenesis of PD .

###19656815
background	To compare the effect of exercise regimes with focus on either motor control training or endurance/strength training for patients with whiplash-associated disorders in subacute phase .
study design	Randomized controlled trial .
other	An outpatient spine clinic in Norway .
population	Twenty-five subjects with a whiplash-associated disorder still having symptoms or disability six weeks after injury.Interventions :
intervention	The participants received 6-10 sessions of physiotherapy for six weeks with focus on either motor control or endurance and strength of neck muscles .
other	The primary outcome measure was the Neck Disability Index .
other	Secondary outcome measures were pain intensity , neck functioning and sick leave .
outcome	No statistical significant differences concerning primary and secondary outcome measures were demonstrated between the groups .
outcome	Approximately half of the participants in both groups obtained a clinically important change ( improvement ) on perceived disability assessed by Neck Disability Index at six weeks and one-year follow-up .
outcome	The changes within both groups were statistically significant at six weeks , but not at one-year follow-up .
outcome	For most pain-related variables clinical significant improvement was demonstrated in both groups at six weeks , but for fewer participants at one year .
outcome	There was also statistical significant improvement within groups in some of the physical performance tests at one-year follow-up .
outcome	The changes associated with motor control training and endurance / strength training of neck muscles were similar for reduced disability , pain and for improving physical performance .

###17291230
background	An elevated risk of ovarian cancer has been observed in Norwegian pulp and paper workers who were possibly occupationally exposed to asbestos .
other	The present study was initiated to investigate if the increased risk could be associated with asbestos fibers in ovarian tissue from workers in this industry .
other	Normal ovarian tissue specimens from three groups of women were included in the study .
population	The case group included specimens from 46 women diagnosed with ovarian cancer in the period 1953-2000 , and who had been working in one or more pulp and paper mills between 1920 and 1993 .
other	Normal ovarian tissue specimens from two control groups without occupational history from pulp and paper work were selected from the Cancer Registry database .
intervention	Tissue blocks were digested and prepared for transmission electron microscopy .
other	Number of fibers per gram wet weight was calculated .
outcome	Asbestos fibers were found in normal ovarian tissue from two subjects in the case group , while no fibers were found in the control groups .
outcome	The two asbestos positive cases had been working as paper sorter/packer and chlorine plant worker , respectively .
outcome	Both were possibly secondary exposed to asbestos from family members working as insulators .
outcome	We conclude that the findings in this study did not allow drawing any firm conclusion about an association between occupational exposure to asbestos and ovarian cancer in Norwegian pulp and paper workers .
outcome	Our study confirms that asbestos fibers may reach the ovaries and demonstrates that the applied method is appropriate for identification of the fibers .

###1661263
population	Tumor tissues from 29 women with borderline or malignant epithelial ovarian tumors were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) DNA by the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) .
other	The PCR analysis used a set of consensus primers that are complementary to highly conserved sequences in the genital HPVs ( M. M. Manos , Y. Ting , D. K. Wright , A. J. Lewis , T. R. Broker , and S. M. Wolinsky , Cancer Cells 7 , 209-214 , 1989 ) .
other	Amplification products were detected by Southern hybridization with consensus oligonucleotide probes .
outcome	A total of 70 paraffin-embedded tissue sections from ovarian carcinomas were tested and we did not detect genital-type HPV DNA sequences in any of these specimens .
outcome	However , all of the tissue specimens were considered adequate for PCR analysis because a human cellular gene ( beta-globin ) was successfully amplified in each tissue specimen .
outcome	In addition , HPV 16 DNA was found in a concurrent invasive squamous-cell carcinoma of the cervix from one ovarian cancer patient , indicating that the PCR was able to detect HPV in the lower genital tract of this individual .
outcome	We conclude that there is no association between infection with the most common genital HPVs and borderline and malignant epithelial ovarian tumors .

###11772143
background	Adverse events and medical errors affecting patient care are recognised internationally as major problems in medicine .
background	The failure of health care professionals and health institutes to address this problem has threatened to undermine public confidence in the health care system as a whole .
background	Less focus has been directed at the ethical issues raised by negative outcomes of care , specifically the issue of disclosure .
background	Efforts to prevent negative outcomes of care must be supplemented by policies of increased honesty and openness with patients and their families about adverse incidents .
background	Disclosure should be made easier , not riskier , for healthcare practitioners so clinicians can learn from mistakes and improve patient care .
background	Ethical guidelines for error disclosure must distinguish between disciplinary action and reporting of adverse incidents .
background	Disclosure of negative outcomes requires tact and good communication skills .
background	Healthcare institutions should provide training for the clinicians in this area , if necessary .
background	As a general rule , patients should be informed of unexpected adverse incidents as soon as possible .
background	Medical staff should be rewarded for adverse event reporting and protected from institutional retaliation on account of errors made in health care.health care and public healthprofessional patient relationship

###11103125
background	If the majority of low back pain spontaneously recover in a few weeks , the main problem is to eliminate the possibility of a specific low back pain due to a serious underlying medical condition with radically different therapeutics and consequences .
background	Medical history and physical examination will make it possible to detect these conditions ( tumor , infection , spinal fracture , spondylarthropathy ) and to specify useful complementary explorations .
background	The second objective , for which we have few reliable clinical criteria , will consist in specifying the cause of low back problem .
background	Lastly , it will be needed to detect the factors of risk of chronic course in order to improve the medical care which must be early .

###18767402
background	Family caregivers of U.S. servicemembers with polytraumatic injuries ( injuries to multiple body systems ) need support and information to care for their family members .
background	Providing information to patients ` families may reduce stress and increase coping abilities .
background	Because the field of polytrauma research is new and evidence is lacking , providers rely on traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) research to guide their practice .
study design	This article presents a narrative literature review on the information needs of families of patients with TBI .
other	It summarizes the types of needed information , the most appropriate time to provide information , and the best approaches for providing information .
outcome	Future research on information needs is critical if polytrauma rehabilitation providers are to effectively support families in their caregiving roles .
outcome	Such research likely will benefit caregivers of patients with polytrauma who acquire their injuries as civilians , as well .
outcome	Research gaps are identified with regard to the information needs of families of patients with TBI ; these gaps also are applicable to polytrauma caregivers .
outcome	Additional research areas are highlighted in light of the new polytrauma population .

###18838492
background	Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) have significant end-of-life needs , but are much less likely than patients with cancer to access or receive appropriate palliative care .
other	Little is known about the existing availability or quality of available services within the United Kingdom .
background	We surveyed 100 NHS acute hospitals enquiring into the provision of care for patients with COPD and requesting examples of current good practice that might be used to set standards .
outcome	Forty-two percent of hospitals had formal palliative care arrangements for patients with COPD , whereas 59 % had plans to develop or further develop services .
outcome	Analysis of qualitative data suggested four strands that highlighted good practice ; teams , care pathways , service components and linkages .
outcome	These data may help to inform the debate leading to the development of standards in end-of-life care for patients with COPD .

###11501604
background	The use of spinal cord stimulation ( SCS ) for chronic intractable anginal pain was first described in 1987 .
background	Numerous studies have demonstrated its efficacy in improving exercise tolerance , decreasing frequency of anginal episodes , and prolonging time to electrocardiographic signs of ischemia .
study design	This review will examine the potential mechanisms of this antianginal effect and propose a unified hypothesis explaining it .
background	The effect of SCS involves a mutual interaction of decreased pain , decreased sympathetic tone , and a likely redistribution of myocardial blood flow to ischemic regions .
background	Spinal cord stimulation reduces the transmission of nociceptive impulse via the spinothalamic tract due to an enhanced release of gamma aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) from dorsal horn interneurons .
outcome	Improvement of myocardial blood flow at the microvascular level has been demonstrated by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
outcome	A decreased sympathetic tone has been shown by norepinephrine kinetics , tests of sympathetic reflexes , and the use of ganglionic blockers .
outcome	We hypothesize that SCS exerts its beneficial effects by decreasing pain and decreasing sympathetic tone , the result of which is decreased myocardial oxygen consumption along with an improved myocardial microcirculatory blood flow .

###15147010
background	Three-dimensional ( 3-D ) ultrasound is a relatively new technique , which is well suited to imaging superficial blood vessels , and potentially provides a useful , noninvasive method for generating anatomically realistic 3-D models of the peripheral vasculatu
background	Such models are essential for accurate simulation of blood flow using computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) , but may also be used to quantify atherosclerotic plaque more comprehensively than routine clinical methods .
background	In this paper , we present a spline-based method for reconstructing the normal and diseased carotid artery bifurcation from images acquired using a freehand 3-D ultrasound system .
background	The vessel wall ( intima-media interface ) and lumen surfaces are represented by a geometric model defined using smoothing splines .
background	Using this coupled wall-lumen model , we demonstrate how plaque may be analyzed automatically to provide a comprehensive set of quantitative measures of size and shape , including established clinical measures , such as degree of ( diameter ) stenosis .
background	The geometric accuracy of 3-D ultrasound reconstruction is assessed using pulsatile phantoms of the carotid bifurcation , and we conclude by demonstrating the in vivo application of the algorithms outlined to 3-D ultrasound scans from a series of patient c

###1739858
population	Cluster-analytic techniques were used to categorize coping strategies ( CS ) measured by the Ways of Coping -- Revised Scale , and locus of control ( LOC ) beliefs measured by the Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Scale in 53 male traumatically brain-inju
outcome	A cluster characterized by comparatively higher use of self-controlling and positive reappraisal CS and lower external LOC was associated with significantly lower mood disturbance and physical difficulties and a trend to be less depressed .
outcome	The age of the neurologically injured patient and Taylor 's ( 1983 ) cognitive adaptation theory may be important aspects of recovery from TBI and other neurological conditions .

###1764703
background	Intensive management of severe closed head injury is pursued in most neurosurgical units , as it no doubt reduces mortality .
background	However , the fate of those salvaged from death is less clearly defined .
background	The impact of aggressive management on the psychological recovery is even less clear .
population	This retrospective study of children admitted to a regional paediatric neurosurgical service attempts to address these issues .
population	Eighty-four children between the ages of 3 to 16 years with severe head injuries were studied and categorized according to conservative or intensive treatment groups .
other	The availability of intensive management led to a greater number of such children referred .
outcome	The mortality in those children sustaining more severe injury , i.e. Glasgow Coma Score ( GCS ) 3 or 4 , was halved ( 44 % ) with intensive management from 80 % in the conservative group .
outcome	For those with less severe injury ( GCS 5-8 ) , it was unchanged at about 23 % .
outcome	The reduced mortality is at the expense of increased morbidity .
outcome	Psychological testing showed that the cognitive recovery was comparable .

###19455507
background	Idiopathic transient osteoporosis of the hip is a rare condition that was first described in a series women in their third trimester of pregnancy .
background	The clinical course is usually benign and self-limiting .
background	Magnetic resonance is very useful for the diagnosis .
background	Differential diagnoses include avascular necrosis of the femoral head , septic arthritis of the hip , osteomyelitis , stress fractures , primary or secondary neoplastic processes , and referred pain from the spine or genitourinary tract in pregnant women .
background	The authors present a case of idiopathic transient osteoporosis of the pelvis in a young nonpregnant woman with insidious hip pain with no antecedent infection or trauma .

###7829185
population	In this paper , we present 17 cases with injury of the lower cervical spine associated with widening of the spinal canal .
background	This was due to bilateral fracture of the pedicles of the neural arch , where the body of the injured vertebra is displaced anteriorly , while the posterior elements of the vertebra remain in situ .
other	Eleven patients were male and six female , between 32 and 53 years of age .
background	Ten of them were involved in a road traffic accident , while seven had a fall on the head .
background	We distinguished two types of injury : Type I with anterior displacement of the injured vertebra ( 12 cases ) and Type II with impaction of the injured vertebral body on the vertebra below ( five cases ) .
background	Thirteen patients were without neurological complications , two had root lesions , while two had tetraplegia from a point higher than the injury level .
background	This was due to an extensive anterior displacement of the injured vertebra and of the whole spine above , associated with dislocation of the vertebra above the injury and damage to the spinal cord .
outcome	The cases with anterior displacement of the injured vertebra are unstable and need spinal fusion after prior reduction , while the rest can be treated non-operatively with head traction followed by bracing until stable intervertebral union is achieved .

###15491557
background	Persistence of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) is associated with an increased risk of developing cervical SIL and cancer in young women .
background	Because this association in older , postmenopausal age women has received little attention , we evaluated persistence of HPV among women in this age group .
population	Women ( n = 105 ) ages 45-64 were examined annually for 7 years to evaluate HPV in cervical cytologic specimens .
other	PCR , dot blot hybridization and DNA sequencing were used to detect HPV types .
outcome	The cumulative prevalence of HPV was 34 % , and 24 % had HPV high-risk oncogenic types which are associated with genital cancers .
outcome	The most common oncogenic types were HPV-16 ( 72 % ) and HPV-31 ( 16 % ) .
outcome	The persistence rate of HPV infection was 16 % .
outcome	No specific risk factors were associated with repeat viral positivity .
outcome	Postmenopausal women are infected with persistent oncogenic HPV at a substantial rate , supporting the need for continued screening in postmenopausal women to detect preneoplastic genital lesions .

###9668871
background	The levels of Cognitive Functioning Assessment Scale ( LOCFAS ) is a behavioral checklist that includes behaviors commonly seen in patients during the earliest stages of recovery from traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
population	The LOCFAS and the Disability Rating Scale were used four times each week to evaluate 28 patients who had had TBI ; this was done throughout their acute care hospitalization .
other	The Glasgow Coma Scale , Stover-Zeiger Scale , and Expanded Glasgow Outcome Scale also were used to evaluate patients at their initial assessment and at the time of their discharge .
outcome	Concurrent validity ( r > .85 ) , both at the initial assessment and discharge , and predictive validity ( r > .70 ) were high .
outcome	The daily stability and interrater reliability ( r = .99 ) of the LOCFAS also were good .

###15619479
background	Critically injured patients are susceptible to the abdominal compartment syndrome ( ACS ) , which requires decompressive laparotomy with delayed abdominal closure .
background	Previous work by the University of Texas Houston group showed impaired gut function after resuscitation-associated gut edema .
other	The purpose of this study was to determine if enteral nutrition was precluded by the intra-abdominal hypertension and bowel edema of the ACS .
population	Patients developing postinjury ACS from January 1996 to August 2003 at our level-I trauma center were reviewed .
other	Patient demographics , time to definitive abdominal closure , and institution and tolerance of enteral nutrition were evaluated .
outcome	Thirty-seven patients developed postinjury ACS during the study period ; 26 men and 11 women with a mean age of 36 + / - 4 and injury severity score of 33 + / - 4 .
outcome	Mean intra-abdominal pressure before decompression was 32 + / - 3 mm Hg , and concurrent mean peak airway pressure was 50 + / - 4 cm oxygen .
outcome	Enteral feeding was never started in 12 patients ; 4 died within 48 hours of admission , 7 required vasoactive agents until their death , and 1 developed an enterocutaneous fistula requiring parenteral nutrition .
outcome	Enteral feeding was initiated in the remaining 25 patients : 13 had feeds started within 24 hours of abdominal closure ; 5 were fed with open abdomens ; and 7 had a delay because of vasopressors ( n = 2 ) , multiple trips to the operating room ( n = 2 ) , paralyti
outcome	Once advanced , enteral feeding was tolerated in 23 ( 92 % ) of the 25 patients with attainment of goal feeds in a mean of 3.1 + / - 1 days .
outcome	Despite the bowel edema and intra-abdominal hypertension related to the ACS , early enteral feeding is feasible after definitive abdominal closure .

###15191525
background	Cytokines and chemokines like the proinflammatory chemokine , monocytechemoattractant protein 1 ( MCP-1 ) are important for the recruitment of inflammatory cells into multiple sclerosis ( MS ) lesions .
background	Recently , a nucleotide substitution from adenosine to guanosine ( A -- > G ) at position -2518 of the MCP-1 promoter was shown to be associated with increased MCP-1 expression .
population	We analysed MCP-1 genotypes in 634 MS patients and 405 healthy controls .
outcome	The allelic frequencies were comparable between both groups .
outcome	No correlation was found between genotype and disease course , disease severity or age of disease onset .
outcome	Although statistically no + significant mRNA expression and MCP-1 secretion were elevated in patients carrying the mutant allele .
outcome	Thus , our data could not reveal any association between the MCP-1 -2518 polymorphism and susceptibility to or clinical disease course of MS.

###16594950
background	The aim of the present study was to provide basic descriptive data regarding utilization of 12-month mental health services in the Japanese community population .
population	Face-to-face household surveys were carried out in four areas ( two urban cities and two rural municipalities ) , and a total of 1663 persons participated ( overall response rate : 56.4 % ) .
background	For data collection , the structured psychiatric interview , World Mental Health version of the World Health Organization Composite International Diagnostic Interview ( WMH-CIDI ) was used , allowing DSM-IV diagnoses , severity , and service utilization .
outcome	It was found that 7.3 % of total respondents had received any service , either professional or non-professional , in the past 12 months , including 20.0 % of those with 12-month DSM-IV disorders and 6.2 % of those without .
other	Thirty-three percent of those with any mood disorder used any service , and 26.8 % of those used some type of health care .
outcome	The probability of people with 13-15 years of education receiving mental health treatment was fourfold higher than those with > or = 16 years of education .
other	Gender , age , or income were not found to contribute to utilization of mental health services .
outcome	The results confirm that the majority of people with a recent psychiatric disorder have not used mental health care or other support systems .
outcome	The mental health care system in Japan has improved over the past decade , but not enough for people suffering from mental disturbances .

###15902640
background	Prospective evaluation of vertebroplasty for osteoporotic compression fractures concerning pain reduction , demand of analgesics and quality of life .
population	In 26 consecutive patients , 50 vertebral fractures were treated by percutaneous vertebroplasty under fluoroscopic ( n = 44 ) or combined fluoroscopic/CT guidance ( n = 6 ) .
other	Prospective follow-up was performed after 6 ( for 50 vertebral fractures ) and 12 months ( for 27 vertebral fractures ) .
other	Visual analogue scale ( VAS ) and numeric rating scale ( NRS ) was applied for the assessment of pain .
other	Subjective quality of life and analgesics demand was documented semi-quantitatively .
outcome	Mean interval from the beginning of pain symptoms to therapy was 8.5 weeks .
outcome	Vertebroplasty was technically successful in all evaluated patients .
outcome	Pain severity decreased from 10 ( defined at baseline as initial pain score ) to 2.8 after 6 months and 2.7 after 12 months .
outcome	Subjective quality of life was reported as very well , well or improved in 92 % ( n = 26 after 6 months ) or 100 % ( n = 13 after 12 months ) .
outcome	No need for additional analgesic therapy was observed in 69.3 % ( n = 26 ) after 6 months and 61.5 % ( n = 13 ) after 12 months .
outcome	Eight newly developed vertebral fractures were observed during follow-up , with 5 fractures directly adjacent to previously treated vertebrae .
outcome	Leakage of polymethyl methacrylate ( PMMA ) into the intervertebral space or spinal canal was observed in 22 % and 20 % respectively ( n = 50 vertebrae ) .
outcome	No neurologic deterioration or complications requiring surgery were observed .
outcome	Vertebroplasty is a successful therapeutic approach for the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral fractures .
outcome	Persistent improvement of clinical symptoms was shown at follow-up after 6 and 12 months .

###8375245
background	OBJECTIVE -- To determine whether the additional costs of preconception care are balanced by the savings from averted complications .
background	Several studies have demonstrated the efficacy of preconception care in reducing congenital anomalies in infants born of mothers with pre-existing diabetes mellitus .
population	RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS -- This study used literature review , consensus development among an expert panel of physicians , and surveys of medical care personnel to obtain information about the costs and consequences of preconception plus prenatal care com
background	Preconception care involves close interaction between the patient and an interdisciplinary health-care team as well as intensified evaluation , follow-up , testing , and monitoring .
other	The outcome measures assessed in this study are the medical costs of preconception care versus prenatal care only and the benefit-cost ratio .
outcome	RESULTS -- The costs of preconception plus prenatal care are $ 17,519 / delivery , whereas the costs of prenatal care only are $ 13,843 / delivery .
outcome	Taking into account maternal and neonatal adverse outcomes , the net savings of preconception care are $ 1720/enrollee over prenatal care only and the benefit-cost ratio is 1.86 .
outcome	The preconception care program remained cost saving across a wide range of assumptions regarding incidence of adverse outcomes and program cost components .
outcome	CONCLUSIONS -- Despite significantly higher per delivery costs for participants in a hypothetical preconception care program , intensive medical care before conception resulted in cost savings compared with prenatal care only .
outcome	Third-party payers can expect to realize cost savings by reimbursing preconception care in this high-risk population .

###7403205
population	Key pecking of pigeons was maintained under a four-component multiple fixed-interval schedule with values of 1-min , 3-min , 5-min and 10-min .
other	Each schedule value was correlated with a different key color , each of which controlled distinctively different performances .
other	This schedule generated a range of response rates both within and across the different interval components that permitted a direct comparison of drug effects on local and overall rates of responding .
outcome	d-Amphetamine , cocaine , imipramine and pentobarbital all increased low local response rates at doses that did not affect or decreased higher rates within each fixed interval .
outcome	Similar effects were obtained when different overall rates of responding were analyzed except that imipramine and pentobarbital also increased the highest overall rates occurring under the 1-min schedule .

###9431609
population	The radiographic and clinical results of two different anterior structural grafts were compared in 38 patients who had combined anterior-posterior revision surgery for failed lumbar fusion .
background	Failed lumbar fusion surgery , such as pseudarthrosis or flatback deformity , may result in disabling pain .
background	The optimum revision technique has yet to be defined .
background	The authors of the current study sought to determine which of two different types of anterior graft yields the best results .
background	Posterior procedures for revision of a failed lumbar fusion have not yielded reliably successful results .
background	A combined anterior-posterior approach may be effective in restoring sagittal balance and enhancing fusion rates .
background	Recent studies have shown femoral ring allografts to be effective in lumbar fusion revision , but no studies have compared these with other types of structural grafts .
population	Thirty-eight patients with pseudarthrosis were treated with combined anterior-posterior lumbar spine fusion using either femoral ring allografts ( 26 patients ) or tricortical iliac autografts ( 12 patients ) .
other	Radiographic follow-up examination and retrospective patient self-assessment questionnaires were used to evaluate outcomes .
other	Results were assessed by independent reviewers after a mean follow-up period of 35 months .
outcome	Radiographic follow-up examination revealed acceptably low pseudarthrosis rates for structural autografts ( 0 % ) and allografts ( 6 % ) .
outcome	The questionnaires revealed significant improvement in pain for both groups .
outcome	Allograft patients showed greater improvement in function , less pain medication usage , and higher overall success rates ( 83 % ) than autograft patients ( 64 % ) .
outcome	Femoral ring allografts are as effective , clinically and radiographically , as tricortical iliac autografts when used as an anterior structural element in revision lumbar spine fusion in patients who have undergone multiple surgical procedures for pseudart
outcome	The slightly greater improvement for the allograft group needs to be confirmed in a larger study .

###15196863
background	From the knowledge of risk factors of epithelial ovarian cancer , we deduced a hypothesis that human seminal plasma ( HSP ) has a preventive role in the development of epithelial ovarian cancer .
background	To examine whether HSP directly influences the growth of ovarian cancer , we have investigated the in vitro and in vivo effect of HSP on ovarian adenocarcinoma cell lines ( SK-OV-3 and OVCAR-3 ) in comparison with its effects on normal ovarian surface epithe
other	Cell viability was determined by MTT assay .
other	Cytotoxic effect was evaluated by flow cytometry analysis , by DNA laddering , and by morphological analysis .
population	In vivo therapeutic effect of HSP was evaluated by the subcutaneous inoculation of SK-OV-3 cells in nude mice ( BALB-c ) model .
outcome	HSP at a final concentration of 1:50 induced a time - and dose-dependent inhibition of SK-OV-3 and OVCAR-3 growth , whereas NOSE was not affected .
outcome	Flow cytometric analysis , DNA laddering , and morphological analysis indicated that HSP induced necrosis , rather than apoptosis , of both ovarian carcinoma cell lines .
outcome	In in vivo experiment that used the nude mice ( Balb-C ) with tumor inoculation of SK-OV-3 cells , HSP induced necrosis of tumor with no detectable toxic effects on the major organs .
outcome	These results show that HSP inhibits the growth and induces the necrosis of epithelial ovarian cancer cells and suggests that one or more components of HSP may provide a scientific basis for preventing epithelial ovarian cancer .

###15774794
background	This systematic review describes the diagnosis and management of adult patients with a suspected or confirmed diagnosis of extradural malignant spinal cord compression ( MSCC ) .
other	MEDLINE , CANCERLIT , and the Cochrane Library databases were searched to January 2004 using the following terms spinal cord compression , nerve compression syndromes , spinal cord neoplasms , clinical trial , meta-analysis , and systematic review .
outcome	Symptoms for MSCC include sensory changes , autonomic dysfunction , and back pain ; however , back pain was not predictive of MSCC .
outcome	The sensitivity and specificity for magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) range from 0.44 to 0.93 and 0.90 to 0.98 , respectively , in the diagnosis of MSCC .
outcome	The sensitivity and specificity for myelography range from 0.71 to 0.97 and 0.88 to 1.00 , respectively .
outcome	A randomized study detected higher ambulation rates in patients with MSCC who received high-dose dexamethasone before radiotherapy ( RT ) compared with patients who did not receive corticosteroids before RT ( 81 % v 63 % at 3 months , respectively ; P = .046 ) .
outcome	There is no direct evidence that supports or refutes the type of surgery patients should have for the treatment of MSCC , whether surgical salvage should be attempted if patient is progressing on or shortly after RT , and whether patients with spinal instab
outcome	Patients with symptoms of MSCC should be managed to minimize treatment delay .
outcome	MRI is the preferred imaging technique .
outcome	Treatment for patients with MSCC should consider pretreatment ambulatory status , comorbidities , technical surgical factors , the presence of bony compression and spinal instability , potential surgical complications , potential RT reactions , and patient pref

###10343193
population	Twenty-six patients with metastatic colorectal cancer were given cisplatin ( CDDP ) and dacarbazine ( DTIC ) .
other	Patients who relapsed while receiving adjuvant 5-fluorouracil ( FU ) or had 5-FU-resistant metastatic disease were included .
other	Median age was 52 years and the male-to-female ratio was 1 .
outcome	Performance status ( ECOG ) was 3 in 5 patients and 0-2 in the remainder .
intervention	CDDP ( 20 mg/m2/day i.v. ) and DTIC were given ( 250 mg/m2/day i.v. ) on days 1-5 .
other	The treatment was repeated every 3 weeks until disease progression .
outcome	Total response rate was 19.2 % ( 95 % confidence interval : 4.5-34 .3 % ) with one clinical complete response ( 3.8 % ) and 4 partial responses ( 15.4 % ) .
outcome	Median response duration was 5 months .
outcome	Median survival for the whole group and for responders was 6 and 8 months , respectively .
outcome	In conclusion , CDDP + DTIC combination has modest activity in patients with colorectal cancer resistant to 5-FU treatment .

###8180536
background	OBJECTIVES -- To examine the effects of early case management for patients with severe head injury on outcome , family function , and provision of rehabilitation services .
study design	DESIGN -- Prospective controlled unmatched non-randomised study for up to two years after injury .
other	SETTING -- Four district general hospitals and two university teaching hospitals , each with neurosurgical units , in east central , north , and north east London and its environs .
population	SUBJECTS -- 126 patients aged 16-60 recruited acutely and sequentially after severe head injury .
intervention	All received standard rehabilitation services in each of the six hospitals and districts : case management was also provided for the 56 patients admitted to three of the hospitals .
other	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES -- Standard measures of patients ' physical and cognitive impairment ; disability and handicap ; and affective , behavioural , and social functioning and of relatives ' affective and social functioning .
other	Relatives ' perception of burden ; changes in patients ' and relatives ' housing , financial , vocational , recreational , and medical needs ; and ongoing requirements for care and support ; and the amount and type of paramedical input provided were assessed with structured questionnaires .
outcome	RESULTS -- For a given severity of injury , case management increased the chance and range of contact with inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation services .
outcome	However , duration of contact was not increased by case management , and there was no demonstrable improvement in outcome in the case managed group .
outcome	Any trends were in favour of the control group and could be accounted for by group differences in initial severity of injury .
outcome	CONCLUSIONS -- Widespread introduction of early case management of patients after severe head injury is not supported , and early case management is not a substitute for improvement in provision of skilled and specialist rehabilitation for patients .

###16249656
background	There are increasing numbers of children orphaned by AIDS , especially in countries without universal free AIDS treatment .
background	As institutionalization is associated with bad health and developmental outcomes , we have identified the factors associated with the institutionalization of AIDS orphans in a population-based survey in a city in southern Brazil .
population	Using AIDS mortality and healthcare registries from 1998 to 2001 , a cross-sectional study was conducted among the caregivers of children aged 0-14 years who were the survivors of parents dying of AIDS in Porto Alegre .
other	Data were collected by a household survey using a structured questionnaire .
other	Out of 1131 orphans identified , 75.4 % of their caregivers participated .
outcome	Among participants , 70 % had lost their father and 50 % their mother , and 21 % had lost both parents .
outcome	At the time of the survey , 41 % of the children lived with the mother , 25 % lived with grandparents and 5 % lived in institutions .
outcome	In multivariate analysis , HIV positivity multiplied the child 's chances of living in an institution by a factor of 4.6 , losing its mother by 5.9 , losing both parents by 3.7 , and having a non-white mother by 4.0 .
outcome	This study provides population-based data on what has become of the children of individuals dying of AIDS .
outcome	Improving the quality of life and averting the institutionalization of AIDS orphans requires interventions to promote the survival of mothers living with AIDS , as well as specific interventions for child family placement .
outcome	Reducing the stigma of HIV infection in children and racial discrimination present challenges in Brazil .

###11841719
background	Epidural analgesia is a pharmacological technique for operative and postoperative pain control .
background	It has been used with lumbar microdiscectomy to facilitate management of surgical pain , shorten patient recovery time , and increase patient satisfaction with the procedure and the hospital stay .
background	Adcon-L ( Gliatech , Inc. , Cleveland , OH ) ( adhesion control in a barrier gel ) has been demonstrated to act as a barrier to the development of epidural fibrosis after lumbar procedures , minimizing the formation of fibrotic scar and improving the long-term ou
other	In this study , we used Adcon-L as a vehicle to administer 1 mg of morphine epidurally to patients who underwent lumbar microdiscectomy .
other	Our objective was to evaluate the safety and analgesic efficacy of this compound .
population	A randomized , controlled , double-blind study was conducted in 100 patients .
intervention	Patients were randomized to two groups : the morphine-Adcon-L ( M-ADL ) group ( n = 51 patients ) or the Adcon-L control group ( n = 49 patients ) .
other	Outcome measures included 1 ) a visual analog scale to assess the intensity of spontaneous low back and radicular pain , 2 ) a straight leg-raising maneuver to assess the degree of leg elevation in relation to evoked sciatic pain , 3 ) postoperative time to comfortable walking , 4 ) duration of postoperative hospitalization , 5 ) required amount of postoperative analgesics , and 6 ) postoperative work time loss .
outcome	No intraoperative or postoperative complications were observed .
outcome	No clinically relevant adverse events , such as urinary retention , respiratory disturbances , or wound infections were reported in the M-ADL group .
outcome	At the time of hospital discharge , results were as follows : 1 ) the M-ADL group had significantly lower pain intensity scores ( mean value of postoperative visual analog scale , 12.3 mm + / - 0.9 in the M-ADL group versus 24.7 mm + / - 11.5 in the control group [
outcome	In addition , at 1 year of follow-up , there was no clinical evidence of late-onset neurological complications .
outcome	The epidural application of the compound M-ADL after lumbar microdiscectomy was found to be safe and effective , and it significantly improved postoperative pain control and return to function .

###12359689
background	Serotonin abnormalities may be involved in the etiopathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) .
background	The silent G-to-C substitution at nucleotide 861 of the coding region of the 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) receptor gene may be associated with liability to OCD .
population	The aim of this study was to investigate this association in an Italian OCD study group .
other	Genotyping for 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) was performed for 79 nuclear families of probands with OCD .
other	The transmission/disequilibrium test was used to determine transmission of the alleles from parents to offspring .
outcome	Of the 79 families , 48 were informative for the analysis , i.e. , both parents were genotyped for 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) , and at least one parent was heterozygous .
outcome	No preferential transmission of either allele of the 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) gene was observed .
outcome	These data do not support a role for the 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) receptor gene in conferring susceptibility to OCD .

###1991739
population	Fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to Hope Hospital , none being judged to be in a terminal condition .
outcome	One patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations ; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief .
outcome	There were three failures .
outcome	Twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation .
outcome	Of these , 20 had major recovery of neurological function .
outcome	Patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had ` prophylactic ' decompression at the time of stabilisation ; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression .
outcome	The results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation ; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation .
outcome	Postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible , and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy , as indicated .

###18219233
background	To quantify posttraumatic brain injury ( post-TBI ) mental fatigue objectively by documenting changes in performance on neuropsychological tests as a result of sustained mental effort and to examine the relationship between objectively measured mental fatig
population	The study included 202 community-dwelling individuals with mild-severe TBI and 73 noninjured controls .
other	Measures included Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery , Global Fatigue Index , and situational fatigue rating .
intervention	Subjects were administered a 30-minute computerized neuropsychological test battery 3 times .
other	The second and third administrations of the battery were separated by approximately 2 hours of interviews and administration of self-report measures .
outcome	The neuropsychological test scores were factor analyzed , yielding 3 subscales : speed , accuracy , and executive function .
outcome	Situational fatigue and day-to-day fatigue were significantly higher in individual with TBI group than in individuals without TBI and were associated with speed subscale scores .
outcome	Individuals with TBI evidenced a significant decline in performance on the accuracy subscale score .
outcome	These declines in performance related to sustained mental effort were not associated with subjective fatigue in the TBI group .
outcome	While practice effects on the speed and accuracy scores were observed in non-brain-injured individuals , they were not evidenced in individuals with TBI .
outcome	Findings were largely consistent with previous literature and indicated that while subjective fatigue is associated with poor performance in individuals with TBI , it is not associated with objective decline in performance of mental tasks .

###10232536
background	Experimental models and clinical observations of acute spinal cord injury ( SCI ) support the concepts of primary and secondary injury , in which the initial mechanical insult is succeeded by a series of deleterious events that promote progressive tissue dam
background	Whereas the primary injury is fated by the circumstances of the trauma , the outcome of the secondary injury may be amenable to therapeutic modulation .
other	This article reviews the pathogenetic determinants of these two phases of injury and summarizes the pharmacological manipulations that may restore neurological function after SCI .
population	Experimental models of SCI and their inherent limitations in simulating human SCI are surveyed .
other	The pathogenesis of primary and secondary injury , as well as the theoretical bases of neurological recovery , are examined in detail .
intervention	The effects of glucocorticoids , lazeroids , gangliosides , opiate antagonists , calcium channel blockers , glutamate receptor antagonists , antioxidants , free radical scavengers , and other pharmacological agents in both animal models and human trials are summa
other	Practical limitations to inducing neural regeneration are also addressed .
outcome	The molecular events that mediate the pathogenesis of SCI are logical targets for pharmacological manipulation and include glutamate accumulation , aberrant calcium fluxes , free radical formation , lipid peroxidation , and generation of arachidonic acid meta
outcome	Enhancement of neural regeneration and plasticity comprise other possible strategies .
outcome	Pharmacological agents must be given within a narrow window of opportunity to be effective .
outcome	Although many therapeutic agents show potential promise in animal models , only methylprednisolone has been shown in large , randomized , double-blinded human studies to enhance the functional recovery of neural elements after acute SCI .
outcome	Future therapy is likely to involve various combinations of these agents .

###12931019
background	To analyse the behaviour of pre-surgical serum levels of soluble ( s ) E-selectin and vascular cell adhesion molecule ( sVCAM ) in patients with colorectal cancer , and to evaluate their possible correlation with carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) , pro-inflammatory
population	Pre-surgical serum levels of sE-selectin , sVCAM , interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , IL-1beta , tumour necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) and CEA were measured in 194 patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma , 40 patients with benign colorectal diseases and 59 healthy subj
outcome	sE-selectin , sVCAM , TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels were significantly higher in patients with colorectal cancer compared to either healthy subjects or patients with benign disease .
outcome	Positive rates of sE-selectin , sVCAM and TNF-alpha levels were significantly associated with Dukes ' stage D colorectal cancer , and all three variables were independently associated to the presence of distant metastases .
outcome	Positive sE-selectin , sVCAM and TNF-alpha levels were significantly associated to CEA .
outcome	TNF-alpha and CEA levels were independently related to the presence of positive levels of sE-selectin and/or sVCAM .
outcome	Our findings suggest that the host inflammatory response to cancer cells , and/or their released products ( i.e. CEA ) , might be responsible ( via cytokine release ) for the elevation in circulating adhesion molecules in patients with colorectal cancer .

###17027962
background	Descending noradrenergic pathways contribute to feedback inhibition of pain by releasing norepinephrine in the spinal cord .
background	Noradrenergic nuclei in the pons contain abundant alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors .
population	We assessed the contribution of pontine alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors to endogenous regulation of pain in nerve-injured rats .
other	Tactile allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia were assessed in the injured dermatome and heat nociception in an uninjured dermatome .
intervention	Atipamezole , an alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptor antagonist , or saline was administered systemically or microinjected into the locus coeruleus , the lateral parabrachial nucleus , the central nucleus of the amygdala , the midbrain periaqueductal gray , and/or through an
outcome	Atipamezole administered systemically , into the amygdala or the periaqueductal gray had no significant effects on pain behavior .
outcome	Atipamezole ( 0.3-5 microg ) microinjected into the pons , the locus coeruleus or the lateral parabrachial nucleus , produced a selective and dose-related antiallodynia , which was reversed by i.t. administration of atipamezole ( 5 microg ) .
outcome	I.t. administration of atipamezole alone ( 5 microg ) produced thermal hypersensitivity in the non-neuropathic segment ( tail ) of nerve-injured animals .
outcome	In sham-operated controls , i.t. administration of atipamezole had no effect .
outcome	Suppression of heat nociception in uninjured dermatomes of nerve-injured but not the control animals following i.t. administration of atipamezole indicates that nerve injury produced a tonic activation of noradrenergic feedback inhibition acting on spinal
outcome	In parallel , antiallodynia induced by pontine administration of atipamezole indicates that nerve injury induces a tonic activation of pontine alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors that promotes neuropathic hypersensitivity by attenuating descending inhibition .
outcome	Thus , spinal and pontine alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors have opposite effects on pain-related behavior in neuropathic animals .

###11782839
background	To examine functional improvement patterns of persons with stroke , traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) , and spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
study design	Statistical analysis of data from a multisite study evaluating rehabilitation outcomes .
other	Eight inpatient rehabilitation facilities .
population	A total of 314 consecutive admissions of persons with stroke , SCI , and TBI who received acute medical rehabilitation between 1994 and 1998 .
intervention	Calibration of motor and cognitive items from the FIM instrument , grouping of cases by number of weeks of rehabilitation ( length of stay [ LOS ] groups ) , and plotting of weekly averages across time .
other	Weekly motor and cognitive functional status .
outcome	With the exception of cognitive functioning for persons with SCI , LOS was related to initial functional status , with patients with greater disability having longer LOS ( eg , initial motor status for persons with stroke was 48.3 for those with a 2-week stay
outcome	With the exception of cognitive gains for person with TBIs , the amount of functional gain during rehabilitation was essentially the same for all LOS groups ( eg , the overall average total motor gain for persons with SCI is 22.3 , with no patterns of increas
outcome	When examined separately for persons grouped by LOS , functional status improved linearly during the rehabilitation stay , with differences in rate of improvement depending on initial functional status .

###3678049
population	The data reported are from a 20 % probability sample ( n = 2516 ) of all adult patients seeking care in the emergency room at San Francisco General Hospital during a 60-day period .
outcome	Thirty-five percent ( 35 % ) of the injured and 18 % of the non-injured reported drinking prior to the event .
background	This paper compares the following variables related to drinking-in-the-event for injured and non-injured : drinking places , drinking companions , amount consumed , time lapsed between drinking and the event , effects of drinking and causality attributed by th
outcome	When these variables were entered into a logistic regression to evaluate their predictive value on injury status , only time lapsed since the last drink and drug use prior to the event were predictive of injury with both being negatively associated with ad
outcome	Injuries were more likely than non-injuries to occur in close proximity to drinking ( 44 % of injuries occurred in less than 1 h of the last drink ) , and close to a third of the injured attributed a causal association of drinking with the event , with 60 % of

###12765846
background	Serum lipid responses to dietary modification are partly determined by genetic factors .
other	The objective of the present study was to investigate the influence of the Pro12Ala polymorphism of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma2 ( PPAR-gamma2 ) gene on serum lipid and lipoprotein responses to n-3 fatty acid supplementation .
population	A total of 76 men and 74 women ( age 49 + / -8 years , body mass index 26.5 + / -3.0 kg/m ( 2 ) ) participated in a controlled multi-center study .
intervention	Subjects were randomly assigned to consume either fish oil supplements ( 3.6 g n-3 fatty acids/day containing 2.4 g of EPA and DHA ) or placebo capsules containing olive oil for 3 months .
outcome	At baseline , the Pro12Ala polymorphism was not associated with serum total and lipoprotein lipid concentrations or lipoprotein lipase activity in the fasting state .
outcome	After the 3-month study period , carriers of the Ala12 allele presented a greater decrease in serum triacylglycerol concentration in response to n-3 fatty acid supplementation than did subjects with the Pro12Pro genotype when the total dietary fat intake w
outcome	Changes in serum total cholesterol , serum LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol concentrations were similar among the genotypes in the n-3 fatty acid supplementation group and in the placebo group .
outcome	In conclusion , the Pro12Ala polymorphism of the PPAR-gamma2 gene may modify the inter-individual variability in serum triacylglycerol response to n-3 fatty acid supplementation .

###10659073
background	Acute or chronic neck pain can arise from degenerative processes , musculoskeletal trauma , or structural changes .
background	For all patients presenting with neck pain , determining the presence of radiculopathy or myelopathy is an important step in initial assessment .
background	Depending on the duration of pain , the work-up should include appropriate use of traditional and advanced imaging studies .
background	For cases that do not suggest traumatic , structural , or rheumatologic origins , alternate considerations should include stress , depression , and -- because of its increased incidence in older persons -- cancer .
background	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents , mild oral analgesics , and short-term corticosteroid therapy are the mainstays of treatment , although physical therapy and traction can be helpful for some patients .
background	The presence of a herniated disk , cord compression ( severe stenosis ) , tumor , or other structural lesion may require surgical decompression .

###8148099
background	The community integration questionnaire ( CIQ ) was designed to assess home integration , social integration and productive activity in persons with acquired brain injury .
background	The instrument consists of 15 items and can be completed by self report or with the assistance of a family member or caregiver familiar with the person 's health status and social activities .
background	Previous research has demonstrated adequate test-retest reliability and internal consistency .
background	This study was designed to examine further , the psychometric characteristics of the CIQ and begin the process of establishing the instrument 's validity .
population	The CIQ was administered to 341 persons with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) and 210 persons without TBI or any other apparent disabilities .
outcome	The results indicate that the total scores are normally distributed for both persons with and without TBI .
outcome	A statistically significant difference ( P < 0.01 ) was found between subjects with TBI and those without TBI for all three subscales of the CIQ and for total scores .
outcome	Data analysis also revealed that the total CIQ scores statistically differentiated among subjects with TBI living in three different settings : ( 1 ) living independently ; ( 2 ) living in a supported community situation and ( 3 ) living in an institution .
outcome	Intercorrelations among the three subscales ( home , social and productivity ) demonstrated that the CIQ provides unique information in the assessment of community integration for persons with TBI .
outcome	Areas of future research necessary to expand the research and program evaluation usefulness of the CIQ are identified .

###12939433
background	The origins of excessive daytime sleepiness in Parkinson disease ( PD ) are unclear .
background	The authors hypothesize that orexin neurons , a recently identified wake promoting system , could contribute to its pathophysiology .
population	They measured orexin-A/hypocretin -1 concentration in ventricular CSF in 19 parkinsonian patients and compared it with neurologic controls .
outcome	Orexin levels were lower in patients and decreased with the severity of the disease .
outcome	The authors suggest that orexin neurons contribute to daytime sleepiness in late stage PD .

###17965119
background	The aim of this study was to determine whether a 3-year treatment with strontium ranelate could delay the progression of spinal osteoarthritis ( OA ) .
population	This study was a post-hoc analysis of pooled data from the Spinal Osteoporosis Therapeutic Intervention ( SOTI ) and TReatment Of Peripheral OSteoporosis ( TROPOS ) trials performed on 1105 women with osteoporosis and concomitant radiological spinal OA at bas
other	The presence and severity of osteophytes , disc space narrowing and sclerosis in the lumbar intervertebral spaces was graded according to a validated method , and an overall OA score was calculated for each intervertebral space .
other	Back pain ( measured on a five-point Likert scale only in SOTI ) and health-related quality of life ( SF-36 questionnaire ) were assessed at baseline and after 3 years .
other	Patients who suffered an incident or progressive vertebral fracture during the study were excluded from the analysis .
outcome	The proportion of patients with worsening overall spinal OA score was reduced by 42 % in the strontium ranelate group , compared with placebo ( RR , 0.58 ; 95 % CI , 0.42 to 0.79 ; p = 0.0005 ) .
outcome	Significantly more patients in the strontium ranelate group experienced an improvement in back pain after 3 years , compared with placebo ( p = 0.03 ) , while no significant difference was observed in terms of health-related quality of life between these pati
outcome	The results of this post-hoc analysis suggest that strontium ranelate could reduce the progression of the radiographic features of spinal OA and back pain in women with osteoporosis and prevalent spinal OA .

###17501727
background	Most diagnostic nomenclatures do not allow for the concurrent diagnosis of autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
background	Clinic-based studies suggest autistic symptoms are common in children with ADHD , but such studies are prone to referral bias .
background	This study assesses whether children with ADHD selected from the general twin population have elevated levels of autistic traits .
population	Nine hundred forty-six twins identified by Missouri birth records were assigned to DSM-IV ADHD diagnoses and seven population-derived ADHD subtypes defined through latent class analysis of DSM-IV ADHD symptoms .
other	The Social Responsiveness Scale ( SRS ) was used as a quantitative measure of autistic traits .
other	Linear regression was used to evaluate whether mean SRS scores differed between ADHD diagnostic groups .
outcome	Mean SRS scores for DSM-IV predominantly inattentive subtype and combined subtype ADHD groups were significantly higher than for subjects without DSM-IV ADHD ( p < .001 , both comparisons ) .
outcome	Five of the population-derived ADHD subtypes ( talkative-impulsive , mild and severe inattentive , mild and severe combined ) had significantly higher mean SRS scores compared to the latent class subtype with few ADHD symptoms ( p < .001 , all comparisons ) .
outcome	DSM-IV combined subtype and the population-derived severe combined subtype had the highest mean total SRS scores and the highest mean scores for each of the three autism symptom domains , with a substantial proportion of individuals scoring in the clinical
outcome	This study provides population-based evidence for clinically significant elevations of autistic traits in children meeting diagnostic criteria for ADHD .
outcome	These results have implications for the design and interpretation of studies of both disorders .

###17608813
background	A pattern of musculoskeletal impairment inclusive of upper cervical joint dysfunction , combined with restricted cervical motion and impairment in muscle function , has been shown to differentiate cervicogenic headache from migraine and tension-type headach
background	It was questioned whether this pattern of cervical musculoskeletal impairment could discriminate a cervicogenic headache as one type of headache in more complex situations when persons report two or more headaches .
population	Subjects with two or more concurrent frequent intermittent headache types ( n = 108 ) and 57 non-headache control subjects were assessed using a set of physical measures for the cervical musculoskeletal system .
other	Discriminant and cluster analyses revealed that 36 subjects had the pattern of musculoskeletal impairment consistent with cervicogenic headache .
outcome	Isolated features of physical impairment , e.g. range of movement ( cervical extension ) , were not helpful in differentiating cervicogenic headache .
outcome	There were no differences in measures of cervical musculoskeletal impairment undertaken in this study between control subjects and those classified with non-cervicogenic headaches .

###16259219
background	Adiponectin is a protein hormone produced exclusively by adipocytes .
background	Its circulating levels are decreased in individuals with obesity , atherosclerosis and insulin resistance , suggesting that its deficiency may have a causal role in the etiopathogenesis of these diseases .
population	Studies have shown that adiponectin administration in rodents has insulin-sensitizing , anti-atherogenic and anti-inflammatory effects and under certain settings also decreases body weight .
outcome	Therefore , adiponectin replacement in humans may represent a promising approach to prevent and/or treat obesity , insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes ; however , clinical studies with adiponectin administration need to be conducted to confirm this hypothe
outcome	Current experimental and clinical data regarding adiponectin physiology and pathophysiology are detailed in this review .

###8726199
study design	A large prospective longitudinal cohort study ( n = 1204 ) to identify prevalence of new or recurrent injury and risk factors in a rehabilitated chronic disabling spinal disorder patient group with matched control subjects .
background	To evaluate prevalence and risk factors for new or recurrent injury on a chronic disabling spinal disorder population .
background	The rate of symptom recurrence after acute low back pain , like the rate of initial back pain episodes , is extremely high ( 40-70 % ) .
background	However , although the incidence of recurrent back pain after chronic disabling spinal disorder represents a small subcomponent of these cases , there is a large socioeconomic impact .
background	An individual attempting to return to work after a chronic disabling spinal disorder episode usually bears a stigma of `` high risk '' for recurrent injury and related work disability that may result in barriers to reemployment or work retention .
background	Before the present research , no large scale studies had been conducted to evaluate whether recurrent spine injuries or new injuries to other musculoskeletal areas could be prevented by medical treatment .
background	In addition , no studies had emerged to evaluate physical and psychologic risk factors of injury recurrence in this context to facilitate design of prevention programs .
population	The present study assessed the incidence of claimed recurrent spinal and new musculoskeletal injuries in a population of 1204 workers .
other	A subgroup of 5.3 % ( n = 64 ) of treated patients with a new injury claim in the ensuing 12 months was matched for gender , age , race , length of disability , workers ' compensation venue , previous surgery , and litigation status to an identically sized control group who did not report new or recurrent injuries .
other	Demographic , physical , and psychologic measures were obtained prospectively on all patients , before and after treatment , to be analyzed as risk factors .
outcome	During the year after treatment , 1.3 % ( n = 16 ) of patients reported another injury to the same spinal area , with only a 0.9 % ( n = 11 ) recurrent disability rate .
outcome	A new injury to a different musculoskeletal area was reported by 4.0 % ( n = 48 ) of patients .
outcome	Only 3.4 % of the whole cohort , or 64.1 % ( n = 41 ) of the sample reporting reinjuries after returning to work , experienced lost work time ( i.e. , disability ) after the reinjury .
outcome	Only a modest predictive association was found between risk for new or recurrent injury and two self-report indices .
outcome	The present study suggests that even a sample of the most severe chronic disabling spinal disorder workers ' compensation patients who complete a tertiary functional restoration program are at relatively low risk for either a recurrent spinal disorder or n
outcome	No major physical or psychologic risk factors for recurrent injury could be identified in this large cohort .
outcome	These findings argue powerfully against employer bias in not rehiring employees with previous chronic disabling spinal disorder or discriminating in pre - or reemployment on the basis of putative reinjury risk factors after an appropriate rehabilitation pr
outcome	Literature review documents a surprising paucity of quality studies examining variables predictive of this important socioeconomic outcome variable .

###8512041
background	In considering the appropriate contraceptive method for a particular woman , the potential effect of that method on her risk of developing cancer of the breast , cervix , endometrium , or ovary is crucial .
background	Among the most closely studied of the risk factors for gynecologic neoplasm has been the potential role of contraceptives , especially oral contraceptives , intrauterine devices , and injectable progestins .
background	Physicians need to consider the potential impact of these agents on the disease process , therapy for the disease , future fertility , and the health of the fetus .
background	Although much of the epidemiologic data is inconsistent and difficult to interpret , most studies find no association between oral contraceptive use and increased risk of breast cancer , except possibly in younger women ( < 45 years of age ) with prolonged
background	Oral contraceptive use may also protect against benign breast disease .
background	Data concerning oral contraceptive use and cervical neoplasm are confounded by several interacting variables , the most important of which is that oral contraceptive users tend to have more Papanicolaou smears than nonusers .
background	Some studies have indicated an increased risk of two - to fourfold after 10 years of use .
background	Oral contraceptive use provides clear protection against endometrial and ovarian cancer , an effect that persists for years after discontinuation .
background	Less data have been collected regarding the relationship between intrauterine devices and injectable hormonal preparations and various types of cancer .
background	No evidence suggests that the intrauterine device predisposes to the development of preneoplastic conditions of the cervix , nor to endometrial or ovarian cancer .
background	A reliable form of contraception is indicated in women with cancer of any kind that may require chemotherapy or radiation , because these treatments can have adverse effects on the fetus , especially if given during the first trimester.age factors -- womename

###16580872
background	CF is a kind of diterpenoid which was first isolated and purified from Chinese tropical plants by our laboratory .
background	Our previous works have demonstrated it could inhibit the proliferation of several malignant tumor cell lines and stimulate them to differentiate to normal cells .
background	In this article we investigated the effect of CF on human hepatocellulor carcinoma HepG2 cell viability , differentiation , cell cycle distribution and G1 cell cycle related genes expression .
background	We also detected the effect of retinoic acid ( RA ) which was used as positive control and the effect of combination CF+RA .
outcome	Our data suggested that CF could be useful to induce growth arrest and differentiation in HepG2 cell lines , and could reverse the transformed phenotype .
outcome	This anti-tumor effect was due to G1 arrest in cell cycle which was associated with an increase of p27 ( Kip1 ) and a decrease of cyclin D1 expression , so CF might be a useful targeted therapy strategy for HCC .
outcome	Results also showed RA has a different mechanism from CF on G1 arrest , and CF has not synergistic anti-tumor effect with RA on HepG2 treatment .

###18032316
background	The Cochrane Library of Systematic Reviews is published quarterly .
background	It now contains 3094 complete reviews , 1707 protocols for reviews in production and 6817 one page summaries of systematic reviews published in the general medical literature .
other	In addition there are citations of 495,000 randomized controlled trials , and 9458 cited papers in the Cochrane methodology register .
background	The health technology assessment database contains 6817 citations .
background	This edition of the Library contains 97 new reviews of which 9 have potential relevance for practitioners in pain and palliative medicine .

###8374094
background	Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is a frequent and serious infection in cirrhotic patients with ascites .
background	A high index of suspicion is required for early diagnosis and rapid institution of treatment .
background	The common micro-organisms involved in SBP are the aerobic Gram-negative bacilli and Gram-positive cocci that inhabit the intestine .
background	Empiric antibiotic therapy active against these organisms should be instituted as soon as possible to improve survival .
background	Third generation cephalosporins are very effective and safe as the initial empiric antibiotic regimen .
background	Alternatives include beta-lactam-clavulanic acid combinations and other broad-spectrum antibiotics , although cost benefit considerations are important in selection .
background	If cultures and susceptibility tests allow , antibiotic therapy should be altered to provide optimum narrow-spectrum and cost-effective treatment .
background	Recent evidence suggests that ( at least in the case of cefotaxime ) , 5-day treatment is equally effective as 10-day treatment .
background	Except in patients awaiting liver transplantation , antibiotic prophylaxis of SBP is not recommended at present , as the few trials performed have not been able to demonstrate superior results for survival , hospital admissions or cost-effectiveness , over pr

###15017478
background	Severe hypoxic respiratory failure secondary to massive pulmonary hemorrhage ( MPH ) in preterm infants could be fatal .
other	The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of high-frequency ventilation ( HFV ) as a rescue therapy for respiratory failure secondary to MPH in very-low-birth-weight ( VLBW ) infants .
other	Prospectively we followed up all VLBW infants with pulmonary hemorrhage between January 1993 and December 1996 in our neonatal intensive care unit at King Khalid University Hospital .
population	Seventeen VLBW infants with severe hypoxic respiratory failure secondary to MPH were treated with HFV .
outcome	Ten ( 59 % ) infants responded to HFV and survived , while the other 7 ( 41 % ) did not respond and expired .
outcome	Patent ductus arteriosus was considered the most common associated condition in 10 infants ( 59 % ) .
outcome	There were no statistically significant differences between the responders and the nonresponders in regard to gestational age , birth weight , sex ratio , % inborn , and primary diagnosis .
outcome	However , preintervention peak inspiratory pressure ( pip ) , arterial-alveolar ratio ( a/A ratio ) and oxygenation index ( OI ) were higher in the nonresponders ( p = 0.02 , p = 0.03 , and p = 0.003 , respectively ) , while pip , F IO ( 2 ) , pa CO ( 2 ) , a/A ratio and OI we
outcome	In conclusion , HFV might be an effective and lifesaving mode of treatment in VLBW infants with respiratory failure secondary to MPH ; therefore , prospective randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm these findings .

###12505533
background	Spinal cord dorsal horn N-methyl-D-aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors have been implicated in central sensitization , enhanced responsiveness to peripheral stimuli following peripheral injury .
background	Since hyperalgesia is a behavioral consequence of central sensitization , it should be attenuated at the level of the dorsal horn with NMDA receptor antagonists .
background	However , responsiveness to thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia may be distinct , and have thus far not been directly compared in chronic inflammatory pain models .
population	In the present study , inflammation was induced with complete Freund 's adjuvant ( CFA ) injected into the rat hind paw and NMDA receptor antagonists dizocilpine ( MK-801 ) or 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid ( AP-5 ) were intrathecally injected in rats to determi
other	Locomotor tests and reflexes were also conducted to evaluate potential motor side effects .
outcome	The NMDA receptor antagonists dose-dependently ameliorated mechanical hyperalgesia , but had marginal effects on thermal hyperalgesia .
outcome	In ranges near antihyperalgesic doses , significant disruption of motor coordination was observed for both antagonists .
outcome	These results suggest that , depending on the stimulus , NMDA receptors may have variable significance for central sensitization-mediated hyperalgesia , and that NMDA receptor antagonists may have therapeutic potential for some , but not all components in the

###17364527
background	To conduct a systematic review of the rehabilitation literature of moderate to severe acquired brain injuries ( ABI ) from traumatic and non-traumatic causes .
other	A review of the literature was conducted for studies looking at interventions in ABI rehabilitation .
other	The methodological quality of each study was determined using the Downs and Black scale for randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) and non-RCTs as well as the Physiotherapy Evidence Database ( PEDro ) scale for RCTs only .
outcome	Almost 14 000 references were screened from which 1312 abstracts were selected .
outcome	A total of 303 articles were chosen for careful review of which 275 were found to be interventional studies but only 76 of these interventional studies were RCTs .
outcome	From this , 5 levels of evidence were determined with 177 conclusions drawn ; however of the 177 conclusions only 7 were supported by two or more RCTs and 41 were supported by one RCT .
outcome	Only 28 % of the interventional studies were RCTs .
outcome	Over half of the 275 interventional studies were single group interventions , pointing to the need for studies of improved methodological quality into ABI rehabilitation .

###9696457
background	An outpatient multimodal cognitive-behavioural treatment program ( MMCBT ) for chronic spinal pain was evaluated during an 18-month follow-up period .
background	The treatment included a 1-day course for the patients ' work supervisors .
background	The aim of the study was to evaluate the long-term effect of the treatment program as well as the effect of a work supervisor-training program on the patients ' return to work .
study design	The design was a matched cohort study with four repeated measures .
population	Two groups of subjects suffering from non-specific spinal pain ( treatment group n = 67 , no treatment control group n = 29 ) were assessed with regard to pain intensity , sick-leave , pain coping ability and behavioural changes at work and in personal life .
other	Recordings on supervisors attending the course and changes of supervisory behaviour were also obtained .
outcome	The results show a significant between group difference in pain intensity and perceived pain coping ability at work , favouring the MMCBT group .
outcome	Further , the MMCBT intervention enhances self-reported behavioural changes in areas within the subjects ' own control .
outcome	There is not sufficient statistical support to accept the assumption of MMCBT being superior in reducing sick-leave , either with or without the education of supervisors .
outcome	Even when supervisors changed their behaviour as reported by the patient , no significant effect was found on patients ' return to work .
outcome	In conclusion , the MMCBT do not seem to be effective in reducing sick-leave compared to no treatment , but the MMCBT program is superior in decreasing pain intensity , enhancing self-reported behavioural changes in personal life and improving pain coping ab

###12184722
background	Endomorphin-1 ( Tyr-Pro-Trp-Phe-NH2 , EM-1 ) and endomorphin-2 ( Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH2 , EM-2 ) have the highest affinity and selectivity for the mu-opioid receptor ( MOP-R ) of all known mammalian opioids .
other	They were isolated from bovine and human brain , and are structurally distinct from the other endogenous opioids .
background	Both EM-1 and EM-2 have potent antinociceptive activity in a variety of animal models of acute , neuropathic and allodynic pain .
background	They regulate cellular signaling processes in a manner consistent with MOP-R-mediated effects .
background	The EMs are implicated in the natural modulation of pain by extensive data localizing EM-like immunoreactivity ( EM-LI ) near MOP-Rs in several regions of the nervous system known to regulate pain .
background	These include the primary afferents and their terminals in the spinal cord dorsal horn , where EM-2 is well-positioned to modulate pain in its earliest stages of perception .
other	In a nerve-injury model of chronic pain , a loss of spinal EM2-LI occurs concomitant with the onset of chronic pain .
outcome	The distribution of the EMs in other areas of the nervous system is consistent with a role in the modulation of diverse functions , including autonomic , neuroendocrine and reward functions as well as modulation of responses to pain and stress .
outcome	Unlike several other mu opioids , the threshold dose of EM-1 for analgesia is well below that for respiratory depression .
outcome	In addition , rewarding effects of EM-1 can be separated from analgesic effects .
outcome	These results indicate a favorable therapeutic profile of EM-1 relative to other mu opioids .
outcome	Thus , the pharmacology and distribution of EMs provide new avenues both for therapeutic development and for understanding the neurobiology of opioids .

###6270997
population	A retrospective study of 63 obese patients seen in a hospital outpatient nutrition clinic was reported .
other	The majority suffered from one or more other medical problems .
other	The relationship of amount of and rate of weight loss to various factors was examined .
outcome	The multivariate analysis revealed that either the amount or rate of weight loss was greater in the patients who were more overweight initially , white , male , young , single , older at age of onset of obesity , visited the clinic for a longer period of time b
outcome	Conversely , the amount or rate of weight loss was less in those patients receiving conjugated estrogens , oral contraceptives , propranolol , thioridazine HCl , and those who were receiving behavior modification as treatment.age factorsbehaviorbiologybody wei

###15247569
study design	Prospective randomized blinded trial in a prehospital emergency system .
other	To evaluate the effects of external active warming on acute back pain during rescue transport to hospital .
background	Acute low back pain is one of the complaints that most often entails a visit to the physician or use of the emergency system .
background	Superficial ( e.g. , hydrocolloid packs ) and deep heating ( e.g. , ultrasound ) can relieve acute low back pain in a clinical setting .
background	Recent data showed significant benefit for patients in pain from minor trauma treated by active warming during emergency transport .
other	Accordingly , we tested the hypothesis that active warming would reduce pain and anxiety in patients with acute low back pain being transported to a hospital .
population	A total of 100 patients were included in our study .
other	We selected only those suffering from acute pain > 60 mm on a visual analog scale in the lower back .
intervention	Patients were randomly assigned to two groups : active warming with a carbon-fiber electric heating blanket ( Group 1 ) versus passive warming with a woolen blanket ( Group 2 ) during transfer to hospital .
outcome	Pain scores on arrival at the hospital differed significantly between Group 1 and Group 2 ( P < 0.01 ) .
outcome	In Group 1 , pain reduction from 74.2 + / - 8.5 mm VAS to 41.9 + / - 18.9 mm VAS ( P < 0.01 ) was noted between departure from the emergency site and arrival at the hospital .
outcome	Pain scores remained practically unchanged in Group 2 ( 73.3 + / - 11.9 mm VAS and 74.1 + / - 12.0 mm VAS ) .
outcome	Active warming reduces acute low back pain during rescue transport .

###15561385
background	The objective was to investigate the effectiveness of cannabis-based medicines for treatment of chronic pain associated with brachial plexus root avulsion .
background	This condition is an excellent human model of central neuropathic pain as it represents an unusually homogenous group in terms of anatomical location of injury , pain descriptions and patient demographics .
population	Forty-eight patients with at least one avulsed root and baseline pain score of four or more on an 11-point ordinate scale participated in a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled , three period crossover study .
other	All patients had intractable symptoms regardless of current analgesic therapy .
intervention	Patients entered a baseline period of 2 weeks , followed by three , 2-week treatment periods during each of which they received one of three oromucosal spray preparations .
other	These were placebo and two whole plant extracts of Cannabis sativa L. GW-1000-02 ( Sativex ) , containing Delta ( 9 ) tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) cannabidiol ( CBD ) in an approximate 11 ratio and GW-2000-02 , containing primarily THC .
outcome	The primary outcome measure was the mean pain severity score during the last 7 days of treatment .
outcome	Secondary outcome measures included pain related quality of life assessments .
outcome	The primary outcome measure failed to fall by the two points defined in our hypothesis .
outcome	However , both this measure and measures of sleep showed statistically significant improvements .
outcome	The study medications were generally well tolerated with the majority of adverse events , including intoxication type reactions , being mild to moderate in severity and resolving spontaneously .
outcome	Studies of longer duration in neuropathic pain are required to confirm a clinically relevant , improvement in the treatment of this condition .

###16971624
background	The presence of edema on MR imaging is a common finding in acute or subacute vertebral body compression fractures .
background	Compression fractures can present in patients with benign osteoporosis , metastases , multiple myeloma , or hemangiomas .
background	We present 2 patients with multiple myeloma who had symptomatic acute and subacute compression fractures documented on imaging studies without associated edema on MR imaging evaluation .

###16713393
background	Consumption of trans fatty acids ( TFA ) predicts higher risk of coronary heart disease , sudden death , and possibly diabetes mellitus .
background	These associations are greater than would be predicted by effects of TFA on serum lipoproteins alone .
background	Systemic inflammation and endothelial dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis , acute coronary syndromes , sudden death , insulin resistance , dyslipidemia , and heart failure .
background	Evidence from both observational and experimental studies indicates that TFA are pro-inflammatory .
outcome	Limited evidence suggests that pro-inflammatory effects may be stronger for trans isomers of linoleic acid ( trans-C18 :2 ) and oleic acid ( trans-C18 :1 ) , rather than of palmitoleic acid ( trans-C16 :1 ) , but further study of potential isomer-specific effects is
outcome	TFA also appear to induce endothelial dysfunction .
outcome	The mechanisms underlying these effects are not well-established , but may involve TFA incorporation into endothelial cell , monocyte/macrophage , or adipocyte cell membranes ( affecting membrane signaling pathway relating to inflammation ) or ligand-dependent
outcome	Activation of inflammatory responses and endothelial dysfunction may represent important mediating pathways between TFA consumption and risk of coronary heart disease , sudden death , and diabetes .
outcome	Further study is indicated to define these effects of TFA and the implications of such effects for cardiovascular health .

###11852293
background	Blockade of the adenosine A2A receptor potentiates the effects of levodopa in experimental animals and may offer a novel nondopaminergic target for drug therapy in Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
background	Open-label trials suggest that the nonspecific adenosine antagonist theophylline improves parkinsonian symptoms and increases ON time in advanced patients with PD .
population	In a double-blind , crossover , placebo-controlled trial , the authors investigated the ability of stable plasma levels of theophylline ( between 10-20 microg/mL after 15 days of treatment ) to modulate the long-duration response and the short-duration respons
outcome	Although theophylline induced a longer duration of the effect of levodopa in all Unified Parkinson 's Disease Rating Scale variables considered , including dyskinesias , maximal levodopa-induced improvement and the duration of the effect of levodopa did not
outcome	Only the secondary variable `` akinesia '' showed a statistical tendency to a more prolonged beneficial response with theophylline during an acute levodopa test ( short-duration response ) , and tremor worsened with theophylline during levodopa withdra
outcome	No differences were observed during the subacute course of study medication added to levodopa .
outcome	During this exploratory study , the effects of theophylline were not strong enough to potentiate clearly the antiparkinsonian action of levodopa or to increase ON time in patients with advanced PD .

###15632455
background	Overactive bladder is a common health problem that affects millions of men and women .
background	Despite its prevalence , provider knowledge is lacking with regard to evaluation and treatment modalities .
background	Although bladder control problems are less common in men than in women , the burden of incontinence may be more significant .
background	In men presenting with symptoms of urgency and frequency , a differential diagnosis between overactive bladder and benign prostatic disease must be made because their cause and treatment are different .
background	Empiric treatment of urgency symptoms may cause them to worsen if the diagnosis is not correct .
other	Symptom assessment should include a medical history , physical examination , urinalysis , and post void residual study .
outcome	Over the past several years , many new medications have become available to treat both overactive bladder and benign prostatic disease .
outcome	These medications , in combination with behavioral interventions , are safe and effective .
outcome	The evaluation and treatment of men with symptoms of overactive bladder and/or incontinence is discussed .

###15481727
background	The relief of intractable pain after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is very difficult to obtain , even with dorsal root entry zone lesioning , spinal cord stimulation , and thalamic stimulation .
population	Using bilateral motor cortex stimulation ( MCS ) the authors successfully treated a woman who experienced deafferentation pain 4 years after sustaining an SCI .
outcome	To the authors ' knowledge , this is the first report of bilateral MCS for pain relief after SCI .
outcome	The success they achieved using this method indicates that MCS could be a new treatment option for deafferentation pain following SCI .

###7690198
background	The effect of the ganglioside GM1 on autotomy , a nociceptive behavioral marker for neuropathic pain , and substance P depletion was determined in a rat model of peripheral mononeuropathy , sciatic cryoneurolysis ( SCN ) .
background	SCN is produced by the application of a cryoprobe to the common sciatic nerve using a freeze-thaw-freeze cycle .
background	Due to structural sparing of the nerve , regenerative processes are not precluded .
background	After this peripheral nerve insult , behavioral and neurochemical changes occur that support the use of SCN as a neuropathic pain model .
background	These changes include : autotomy with coincident transient weight loss and paling of eye color suggestive of increased sympathetic activity , spontaneous nociceptive behaviors , touch-evoked allodynia , prolonged mechanical allodynia , ipsilateral decrease of
intervention	Incidence and severity of autotomy were assessed after the intraperitoneal administration of GM1 ( 1 , 10 , and 20 mg/kg ) or saline injected daily for 2 days before SCN , the day of surgery , and for 14 days after surgery .
other	In a subset of two rats from each treatment group , transcardiac perfusion was performed and spinal cords were processed for substance P immunoreactivity .
outcome	GM1 at 10 and 20 mg/kg doses significantly attenuated autotomy as compared with saline-treated rats ( P = 0.007 and 0.0001 , respectively ) .
outcome	However , GM1 , at the doses studied , failed to alter the spinal substance P depletion 21 days after SCN .
outcome	These results indicate that the ganglioside GM1 may have a role in the clinical management of neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury .

###9715923
background	Low bone mass , functional impairment , low muscle strength , and postural instability are predictors of the risk of fracture in an elderly person .
background	The purpose of this study was to investigate the functional impact of an unvarying long-term exercise program to be carried out at home .
background	The exercises had been shown to delay bone loss in an elderly population .
population	At the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation , University of Vienna , postmenopausal women who had been stratified into exercise or control groups 5 to 10 yr ago were called in for a follow-up examination .
other	Frequency of training , habits , and pain causing disability in activities of daily living were recorded .
other	Walking velocity , muscle strength , and postural stability were measured .
other	Functional assessment , blood analysis , and x-rays of the spine were performed additionally .
other	One hundred twenty-four women aged 68.3 + / - 6.8 yr ( mean + / - SD ) underwent a follow-up investigation at the outpatient clinic .
outcome	After 7.7 + / - 1.1 yr the compliance of the training group was still 36 % .
outcome	Self-chosen gait velocity was slightly higher in the regular exercisers than in the controls .
outcome	No intergroup differences were found for pain induced disability , muscle strength , body sway , and fracture rate .
outcome	The pain disability index was significantly associated with corrected self-chosen gait velocity .
outcome	The results suggest that an unvarying home-based exercise program may support general agility but does not yield enough force to improve muscle strength and postural stability in healthy , nondisabled , postmenopausal women who start exercising at the age o
outcome	Further studies are needed to define more appropriate exercise programs for a comprehensive improvement of functional outcome in a population at high risk for osteoporosis .

###18828705
background	An understanding of normal cerebral autoregulation and its response to pathological derangements is helpful in the diagnosis , monitoring , management , and prognosis of severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
background	Pressure autoregulation is the most common approach in testing the effects of mean arterial blood pressure on cerebral blood flow .
background	A gold standard for measuring cerebral pressure autoregulation is not available , and the literature shows considerable disparity in methods .
background	This fact is not surprising given that cerebral autoregulation is more a concept than a physically measurable entity .
other	Alterations in cerebral autoregulation can vary from patient to patient and over time and are critical during the first 4-5 days after injury .
background	An assessment of cerebral autoregulation as part of bedside neuromonitoring in the neurointensive care unit can allow the individualized treatment of secondary injury in a patient with severe TBI .
background	The assessment of cerebral autoregulation is best achieved with dynamic autoregulation methods .
background	Hyperventilation , hyperoxia , nitric oxide and its derivates , and erythropoietin are some of the therapies that can be helpful in managing cerebral autoregulation .
background	In this review the authors summarize the most important points related to cerebral pressure autoregulation in TBI as applied in clinical practice , based on the literature as well as their own experience .

###392298
background	Percutaneously inserted spinal epidural neurostimulation has been derived as a simplified safe alternative to surgically implanted , dorsal column stimulation that is used in the effective treatment and control of spasticity and intractable pain .
population	Twenty-seven tissue specimens from fifteen patients having had percutaneous epidural neurostimulation systems implanted were studied with the aid of light microscopy .
other	The biopsies from tissues around the cables , around the receivers , and at the actual site of epidural stimulation ( at the metallic contact ) , were studied at time intervals varying from one week to two years postimplantation .
outcome	Long-term results , which only show dense fibrous encapsulation of the cables and the receiver , substantiate clinical belief regarding the `` histological safety '' of this electronic modality .

###12019661
background	The prevalence of nonadherence with mood stabilizers ranges from about 18 % to 52 % .
background	Only 1 % of publications on mood stabilizers address this issue .
other	This study aimed to explore the prevalence and predictors of nonadherence in a cohort of individuals with affective disorders receiving long-term treatment with mood stabilizers .
population	Subjects receiving lithium , carbamazepine , and/or valproate were identified from biochemistry laboratory data .
population	Ninety-eight of these subjects had major depressive disorder ( N = 20 ) or bipolar disorder ( N = 78 ) ( DSM-IV ) and gave informed consent to participate in a structured clinical interview to assess their medication adherence and the factors that influenced it
outcome	Just under 50 % of subjects ( 46/98 ) acknowledged some degree of medication nonadherence in the previous 2 years , and 32 % ( 29/92 ) reported only partial adherence in the last month ( missing 30 % or more of their prescribed medication ) .
outcome	Backward stepwise logistic regression demonstrated that partially adherent subjects were best distinguished from adherent subjects by a more frequent past history of nonadherence , denial of severity of illness , and greater duration of being prescribed a m
outcome	Rates of mood stabilizer nonadherence are high .
outcome	Attitudes and behaviors are better predictors of nonadherence than side effects from medication .
outcome	Clinicians need to inquire routinely about problems with adherence .

###10186477
background	This article considers the role of cost-effectiveness studies in the formulary and disease-state management decisions of managed-care entities .
background	In a recently published symposium volume [ Soc Sci Med 1997 ; 45 ( 4 ) : 505-647 ] , US managed-care entities were found to be among the leaders in applying cost-effectiveness studies to healthcare decisions .
background	At the same time , a number of barriers were identified that hinder their wider usage in the managed-care sector .
background	These factors are analysed in this paper along with the prospects for future changes .
background	The potential roles for government policy in this area are also discussed in the final section of the article .

###18552671
population	At the end of lumbar microdiscectomy , we administered an emulsion of low-dose epidural morphine and vaseline sterile-oil as carrier for morphine delivery .
other	To evaluate safety and analgesic efficacy of this compound and the impact on long-term epidural scar production .
background	Epidural analgesia has been used with lumbar microdiscectomy for facilitating management of postoperative pain , shortening patients ' hospital stay and recovery time , and increasing the satisfaction rate.Several products have been used as barrier against t
population	Two milligrams of morphine mixed with 2 mL of vaseline sterile-oil have been epidurally administered to 40 consecutive patients undergoing lumbar microdiscectomy , evaluating safety and analgesic effectiveness of the compound and the incidence of epidural
other	Outcome measures included ( 1 ) visual analog scale ( VAS ) to assess the intensity of spontaneous low back and radicular pain , ( 2 ) straight-leg-raising maneuver to assess the degrees of leg elevation in relation to evoked-sciatic pain , ( 3 ) postoperative time to comfortable ambulation , ( 4 ) duration of postoperative hospitalization , ( 5 ) required amount of postoperative analgesics , ( 6 ) postoperative work time loss , and ( 7 ) follow-up lumbar magnetic resonance imaging or segmental computed tomography with contrast medium for quantitative evaluation of postoperative epidural fibrosis .
outcome	Neither intraoperative nor postoperative clinically relevant adverse events , such as urinary retention , respiratory disturbances , or wound infections , were observed .
outcome	At hospital discharge , patients showed a low pain intensity score ( mean VAS 11.3 mm + / - 0.88 ; mean straight-leg-raising 64.9 degrees + / - 14.6 ) , with low consumption of analgesics ( 31.2 % in hospital , 35 % at home ) .
outcome	Mean hospital stay was 1.21 + / - 0.17 days ; mean postoperative work time loss was 22.23 + / - 1.97 days .
outcome	At 1-week and 2-week control , mean pain intensity score was 10.7 + / - 2.3 and 9.3 mm + / - 1.3 , respectively.After a mean follow-up of 34.3 months ( range , 24-48 ) 12 patients episodes of transient lumbar and/or sciatic pain .
outcome	At the last neuroradiological control , according to the 5-grade scale of Ross et al ( Neurol Res 1999 ) , epidural fibrosis scored 0 in 8 cases and 1 in 32 cases .
outcome	Epidural application of morphine-vaseline sterile-oil compound after lumbar microdiscectomy proved to be safe and effective , improving postoperative pain control and return to function .
outcome	At clinical and neuroradiological follow-up epidural fibrosis was acceptable .
outcome	To confirm the efficacy of the compound , large prospective studies are warranted .

###15479685
background	We developed a patient centred approach to chronic disease self management by providing information designed to promote patient choice .
background	We then conducted a randomised controlled trial of the approach in inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) to assess whether it could alter clinical outcome and affect health service use .
study design	A multicentre cluster randomised controlled trial .
other	The trial was conducted in the outpatient departments of 19 hospitals with randomisation by treatment centre , 10 control sites , and nine intervention sites .
intervention	For patients at intervention sites , an individual self management plan was negotiated and written information provided .
population	A total of 700 patients with established inflammatory bowel disease were recruited .
other	Main outcome measures recorded at one year were quality of life , health service resource use , and patient satisfaction .
other	Secondary outcomes included measures of enablement-confidence to cope with the condition .
outcome	One year following the intervention , self managing patients had made fewer hospital visits ( difference -1.04 ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) -1.43 to -0.65 ) ; p < 0.001 ) without increase in the number of primary care visits , and quality of life was maintain
outcome	The two groups were similar with respect to satisfaction with consultations .
outcome	Immediately after the initial consultation , those who had undergone self management training reported greater confidence in being able to cope with their condition ( difference 0.90 ( 95 % CI 0.12-1 .68 ) ; p < 0.03 ) .
outcome	Adoption of this approach for the management of chronic disease such as IBD in the NHS and other managed health care organisations would considerably reduce health provision costs and benefit disease control .

###8752484
population	We examined the relationship between daytime symptoms and respiratory disturbance indices during sleep in 60 patients with sleep apnea syndrome who had an apnea index of more than 5/hr for at least one night .
outcome	Daytime hypersomnolence , morning headache , and a history of traffic accidents did not correlated strongly with apnea index or with nocturnal desaturation .
outcome	The same was true of daytime blood pressure and nocturnal micturition .
outcome	Both hemoglobin concentration and the mean pulmonary arterial pressure in the daytime correlated significantly with indices of nocturnal desaturation and not with apnea index , but this might reflect the positive correlation between those variables and the
outcome	These data suggest that diagnostic criteria should not be based on apnea index or desaturation alone .
outcome	Long-term follow-up data on Japanese patients is needed to establish more rational diagnostic criteria and stage classification for sleep apnea syndrome .

###7580006
background	Gonal-F ( Serono , Aubonne , Switzerland ) is a recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) synthesized in vitro by cells into which genes encoding for FSH subunits have been inserted .
background	This preparation exhibits physiochemical , immunological , and pharmacological properties that bear great similarity to those of native human FSH .
background	It has a high specific activity and can be administered subcutaneously .
background	To compare the efficacy and safety of Gonal-F with those of urinary human FSH ( Metrodin ; Serono ) in achieving superovulation for IVF purposes in a prospective , randomized study .
population	Twenty infertile patients ( normo-ovulatory healthy women ) were recruited for the study and allocated at random to the Gonal-F or Metrodin groups .
intervention	The treatment protocol consisted of pituitary down regulation by GnRH analog ( Buserelin ; Hoechst , Frankfurt , Germany ) employing the `` long '' protocol initiated at the mid-luteal phase ( 900 micrograms/day , intranasal administration ) .
intervention	Gonal-F ( SC ) or Metrodin ( IM ) was injected daily ( 225 IU/day ) starting on cycle day 3 .
other	Dose adjustment was performed , when necessary , from cycle day 7 .
outcome	Of the 20 cycles analyzed , none was canceled due to poor response .
outcome	No cases of adverse effects ( including local intolerance ) or ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome were recorded in either group .
outcome	They did not differ significantly in the following treatment-dependent variables : hormone profile , duration of FSH treatment , total FSH dose required to achieve follicular maturation , and the number of oocytes retrieved , fertilized , and replaced .
outcome	These preliminary data concur with previous studies in demonstrating that Gonal-F is as effective and safe as Metrodin ( when given in combination with a `` long '' protocol of GnRH analog ) in inducing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF purp
outcome	Its mode of administration ( SC instead of IM ) offers an additional advantage over the urinary human FSH .

###17033813
background	We studied if the beneficial effects of bisphosphonates are maintained after their discontinuation , and whether adverse effects may develop .
population	Seventeen children in whom I.V. bisphosphonates were discontinued for at least 12 months were included .
other	Fracture rate ( FR ) , skeletal pain , bone mineral density of total body ( TB ) and spine L ( 2-4 ) , skeletal radiographs , bone markers and kidney functions were compared between ( a ) before treatment , ( b ) end of treatment , and ( c ) last follow-up .
other	Mean treatment duration was 22 + / -2 months ( 6-43 ) and follow-up 26 + / -2 months ( 18-44 ) .
outcome	FR ( mean + / - SD ) decreased from 0.74 + / -0.21 / year before treatment to 0.35 + / -0.11 / year after treatment and 0.20 + / -0.09 / year at follow-up ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Three children had bone pain before treatment , six during treatment and none at end of follow-up ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	TB Z-score increased from -1.24 + / -0.50 at baseline to -0.37 + / -0.44 at end of treatment and -0.39 + / -0.37 at follow-up ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Spinal Z-score increased from -1.65 + / -0.57 to -0.34 + / -0.56 and 0.19 + / -0.49 , respectively ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Bone turnover markers showed sustained effect of bisphosphonates .
outcome	No adverse effects on kidney functions or skeletal radiographs were noted .
outcome	We conclude that I.V. bisphosphonates continue to exert their beneficial effect for a mean of 26 + / -2 months after their discontinuation ; therefore , once therapeutic goals are achieved , the medication can be withheld , followed by periodic re-evaluation .

###11591398
background	To evaluate whether baseline or procedural stress during in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) or gamete intrafallopian transfer ( GIFT ) affects pregnancy or live birth delivery rates .
study design	Prospective study .
other	Patient ( s )
population	One hundred and fifty-one women completed two questionnaires .
other	None .
other	The number of oocytes aspirated and fertilized , the number of embryos transferred , the achievement of a pregnancy , live birth delivery , and infant outcomes .
outcome	Positive-affect negative-affect score at baseline negatively influenced the number of oocytes retrieved and embryos transferred .
outcome	A higher expectation of pregnancy was associated with greater numbers of oocytes fertilized and embryos transferred .
outcome	At baseline , the risk of no live birth was 93 % lower for women who had the highest positive-affect score compared to those with the lowest score .
outcome	Furthermore , the score on the Infertility Reaction Scale was related to negative outcomes in live birth delivery , infant birth weight , and multiple births .
outcome	During the time of the procedure , the PANAS and Bipolar Profile of Moods States results were related to the number of oocytes fertilized and embryos transferred ; stress did not affect pregnancy or delivery .
outcome	Baseline ( acute and chronic ) stress affected biologic end points ( i.e. , number of oocytes retrieved and fertilized ) , as well as pregnancy , live birth delivery , birth weight , and multiple gestations , whereas ( procedural ) stress only influenced biologic end

###4054633
other	From this and the previous article , the following points may be offered in summary
outcome	When comparing the elderly age group with the general population , the incidence of migraine headaches decreases with age , whereas other etiologies such as glaucoma , temporal arteritis , and cerebrovascular disease may assume a more prominent role in the di
outcome	Patients in the geriatric population are frequently taking a multitude of medications , and it is extremely important to carefully evaluate these for possible precipitants of headache .
outcome	Furthermore , in elderly patients with other potential medical problems , particular attention should be paid to the possibility of various systemic causes of headache .
outcome	Therapy for specific headache disorders should be tailored to the individual patient .
outcome	Consider the patient 's overall general , psychological , medical , and neurologic background .
outcome	The physician must be aware of possible interactions of medications with the therapeutic intervention , as well as possible poor tolerance to specific medications due to preexisting medical or neurologic disorders .
outcome	A complete history , obtaining information on the temporal pattern of headache , the distribution of pain , and precipitating and alleviating factors , is extremely important in evaluating the elderly patient .
outcome	A careful physical examination , paying particular attention to possible disorders of extracranial structures , is indicated .
outcome	A neurologic exam , including basic tests of higher cortical function , should be obtained .
outcome	Important additional laboratory investigations include a complete blood count , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and basic blood chemistries .
outcome	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

###8427136
background	Few options are available for patients with severe heart failure that is unresponsive to therapy with digoxin , diuretics , and vasodilators .
population	The clinical responses and predictors of survival were studied in 41 consecutive patients with New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) class IV heart failure during long-term oral enoximone therapy ( mean dose 232 + / - 15 mg/day ) .
other	The mean age was 60 + / - 1 years , and the initial left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 + / - 0.01 .
other	The cause of heart failure was either coronary artery disease ( n = 23 ) or dilated cardiomyopathy ( n = 18 ) .
outcome	Symptomatic improvement occurred in the majority ( 83 % ) of patients ; 24 % improved two or more NYHA classes .
outcome	Although the 12-month mortality rate for the entire group was high ( 54 + / - 8 % ) , a subgroup of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy achieved a sustained benefit with a decrease in symptoms > 1 NYHA class , fewer hospitalizations , and a survival rate at 24 m
outcome	Multivariate analysis identified the cause of heart failure , left ventricular ejection fraction , and clinical improvement within 60 days of enoximone therapy as predictors of a favorable long-term outcome .
outcome	The presence of coronary artery disease was most predictive of early mortality ( p < 0.0002 ) , with only 5 % of patients surviving > 18 months compared to 66 % of those with dilated cardiomyopathy .
outcome	Median survival rates were 132 + / - 31 and 921 + / - 214 days ( p < 0.001 ) for the coronary artery disease and dilated cardiomyopathy populations , respectively .
outcome	Oral enoximone can provide symptomatic improvement and a palliative option for the majority of patients with refractory heart failure resulting from cardiomyopathy .

###11145005
background	Efficiency and safety of amantadine sulfate ( AMS ) infusions were investigated in late stage complications of Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
population	In an open-label study , 21 PD patients suffering from motor fluctuations and/or dyskinesias were administered AMS infusions ( PK-Merz , 400 mg per day ) during seven days .
intervention	Oral AMS treatment followed .
outcome	Significant improvement of UPDRS motor scores was observed between day 0 and day 7 , remaining improved until day 21 .
outcome	Based on patients ' diary notes , both severity and occurrence of hypokinetic `` off '' state significantly decreased ( from 6.6 to 3.1 hours , p < 0.001 , average `` off '' time per day ) as well as dopaminergic-induced dyskinesias ( from 2.5 to
outcome	AMS infusions followed by oral administration appeared as a safe method for improvement of both motor fluctuations and dyskinesias in advanced PD .
outcome	In advantage to simple oral therapy , AMS infusions allowed fast introduction of a profound and durable treatment effect .

###18619990
background	Transformation of the OA-group toxins into fatty acid ester derivatives ( often designated `` DTX3 '' ) is common in many bi
background	and after 3 and 6 weeks of
outcome	Analysis of samples by HPLC-MS/MS and HPLC-MS ( 2 ) revealed some differences in identity and abundance of fatty acid moieties of the OA-group esters between species , but the 16:0 fatty acid esters dominated in both oysters and mussels , which is in accordanc
other	A wider range of PTX2 SA-esters were detected compared to esters of the OA-group toxins in both mussels and oysters , and in oysters , both 140 , 184 and 205 fatty acid side chains were more common than 160 .
outcome	OA-group toxins were esterified to a larger degree in oysters ( 83-93 % ) compared to mussels ( 21-41 % ) , and in mussels a higher proportion of OA was esterified compared to DTX1 and DTX2 .
outcome	Contrary to what was observed for OA-group toxins , PTX2 SA was esterified to a larger degree in mussels ( 81 % ) compared to oysters ( 64 % ) .
outcome	Calculations of depuration rates for all individual esters of each parent compound showed that the esters of DTX1 depurated significantly slower from both mussels and oysters compared to esters of OA , DTX2 and PTX2 SA , but overall the depuration rates of
outcome	This indicated that differences in depuration rates are not causing the large species-specific differences in levels and profiles of these toxins .
outcome	Instead , the results for the OA-group toxins suggested that a higher rate of esterification in oysters is the main factor causing the observed differences in the proportion of esters to free toxin .
outcome	For PTX2 SA , large differences in ester profiles and a higher proportion of esters of PTX2 SA in mussels compared to oysters suggested differential assimilation and metabolic rate processes for the PTXs compared to OA-group toxins between these species .
outcome	Hence , although produced by the same Dinophysis species , conclusions about the dynamics of one toxin group based on results from the other group should be avoided in future studies .

###17708471
background	Kyphoplasty , the newest of the tools treating vertebral osteoporotic compression fractures ( VOCF ) is the evolution of vertebroplasty , allowing not only pain control and strengthening of the fractured vertebra , but also offering the possibility to restore
population	We present our series of 41 consecutive VOCF treated by kyphoplasty in 30 patients between October 2003 and March 2006 .
other	Systematic spinal X rays and CT scan have be performed , occasionally followed by bone scintigraphy or spinal MRI .
other	The mean preoperative duration of symptoms before surgery was 52 days .
outcome	Pain control after the operation was considered excellent in all cases and all patients were mobilized the day after surgery .
outcome	Kyphoplasty allowed a 50 % restoration of vertebral height in 66 % of the treated vertebras .
outcome	The results were better when surgery was performed within the first three months after the fracture .
outcome	The mean vertebral deformity correction by comparison of the pre - and postoperative Cobb angles was 9.7 degrees .
outcome	One patient showed cement leakage in the spinal canal without neurological deterioration .
outcome	The mean postoperative stay was 2.5 days .
outcome	We found kyphoplasty to be a safe technique allowing immediate pain control after VOCF , with minimal risks of cement leakage or pulmonary embolism .
outcome	Vertebral height and deformity correction are best achieved with early surgery , but pain control is always excellent even with a delayed procedure .

###16496831
background	The objectives of this randomised controlled study were to determine if pre-admission patient education affects post-operative pain levels , domiciliary self-care capacity and patient recall following a laparoscopic cholecystectomy ( LC ) .
intervention	Participants were randomised to receive the standard preadmission program ( SP ) or an individualised , education intervention ( El ) .
other	A pre-operative questionnaire was administered in the pre-admission clinic to determine participants ' knowledge of LC and post-operative management .
other	Telephone follow-up and post-operative questionnaire were conducted approximately 14 days post discharge .
other	Preadmission clinic of a Sydney , Australia , tertiary referral hospital .
population	Ninety-three elective LC patients .
outcome	EI participants experienced lower pain levels and had significantly greater recall of provided information .
outcome	However , no significant differences were found between the control and intervention groups for domiciliary self-care .
outcome	Pre-admission education intervention helps reduce post-operative pain levels following LC and significantly increases patients ' knowledge of self-care and complication management .

###14632299
background	The reported incidence of bone complications after radiation therapy is quite low .
background	The most commonly seen bone complication is insufficiency fractures of the pubis and sacrum .
background	Treatment of insufficiency fractures consists of conservative care , and mineral replacement may be useful .
background	The resolution of symptoms takes at least one year with these treatments .
background	Vascular damage has an important role in the etiology of late radiation injury in normal tissues .
background	Progressive ischemic changes further weaken the bone structure , which can cause fractures , and healing is also delayed .
background	Pentoxifylline is a methylxanthine derivative that is shown to increase tissue blood flow .
population	Here , we present a 63-year-old male patient with pelvic insufficiency fractures due to postoperative pelvic irradiation for rectal adenocarcinoma .
intervention	The patient received pelvic radiotherapy to a total dose of 50.4 Gy with concomitant 5-FU .
other	Six months after the completion of radiotherapy , the patient presented with severe pelvic pain .
outcome	Pelvic magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) demonstrated abnormal signal intensity with insufficiency fractures at the sacrum and bone marrow edema near the fractures , but not an abnormal intensity that revealed bone metastases .
outcome	Neither distant nor locoregional recurrence was observed at his work-up .
outcome	The final diagnosis was insufficiency fractures of the pelvic bones owing to irradiation , and pentoxifylline ( 400 mg , 3 times daily , peroral , 1,200 mg/day ) was used for eight months as treatment .
outcome	Dramatic clinical improvement was obtained in six months , and objective healing was revealed with MRI .
outcome	We concluded that pentoxifylline is a cost-effective drug with minimal adverse effects in treating radiation damage of bone .

###11948388
background	To compare cranial ultrasound studies and neurodevelopmental outcome of preterm infants affected by maternal floor infarction ( MFI ) of the placenta to gestational age-matched controls over an 8-year period from a single institution .
study design	Retrospective case/control study .
outcome	Compared to gestational age-matched controls , infants born to mothers with MFI had a higher incidence of CNS injury on neonatal cranial ultrasound examinations and at follow-up were more likely to have a suspicious or abnormal neurologic examination .
outcome	MFI cases had lower developmental scores in all areas tested and were more likely to have neurodevelopmental impairment .
outcome	Infants born to mothers with MFI should have serial neonatal cranial ultrasound examinations to detect CNS injury and neurodevelopmental assessment during early childhood .

###16044797
background	Sleep apnoea syndrome is a frequent disease , occurring in men aged more than 30 years and in postmenopaused women .
background	Its prevalence is more than 1 % in men and between 0,3 % -0,5 % in women .
background	It is an important public health problem .
background	Diagnosis is made by polysomnography , which is considered as a gold standard , or by polygraphy .
outcome	Sleep apnoea syndrome must be looked for by clinicians in presence of symptoms such as sleepiness , snoring , or behavioural problems , because these patients have a high risk not only of driving crashes , but also of arterial hypertension , brain strokes , and

###11319657
background	To study the changes of haemostatic risk factors for coronary heart disease during a weight reduction programme in obese children and adolescents .
study design	A short-term longitudinal study .
population	Thirty-seven obese white girls ( age , 12 + / -1.8 y ; body mass index ( BMI ) , 26.9 + / -5.25 ) and 19 obese white boys ( age , 11.9 + / -1.7 y ; BMI , 26.2 + / -5.2 ) .
intervention	Fibrinogen , factor VII coagulant activity , von Willebrand factor antigen , and soluble P-selectin were determined before and after a 3 week programme including energy restriction and physical activities .
outcome	All determined haemostatic risk factors decreased significantly during the programme .
outcome	Changes in risk factors were correlated to changes in body composition .
outcome	Children and adolescents with the highest initial concentrations showed the greatest decreases .
outcome	Energy restriction combined with physical activity improves the haemostatic risk profile in obese children and adolescents .

###145506
background	The rare liquor leakage syndrome with cranial nerve lesion , which preferably affects the eye-muscle nerves , can be caused either by further leakage of liquor cerebrospinalis through the dura hole made by the lumbar puncture - or after a surgical operation
background	This does not occur after a suboccipital puncture .
population	A report is given on three cases with different eye-muscle paresis after a simple diagnostic lumbar puncture , after a lumbosacral myelography and after a resection of the sacral nerve roots including the filum terminale and caudal dural sac .
outcome	The prognosis of the eye-muscle paresis is good .
outcome	Restitutio ad integrum resulted .
population	A fourth case with temporary loss of sight of one eye is reported after a lumbar air encephalography , but the eye nerves were damaged before as a result of previous tuberculous basal meningitis .
outcome	Only partial recovery of the visual power occurred .

###15949752
background	The calculation of protein structures from nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) data has been greatly facilitated by improvements in software for the automatic assignment of NOESY spectra .
background	Nevertheless , for larger proteins , resonance overlap may lead to an overwhelming number of assignment options per peak .
background	Although most software for automatic NOESY assignment can deal with a certain level of assignment ambiguity , structure calculations fail when this becomes too high .
background	Reducing the number of assignment options per peak by reducing the chemical shift tolerances can lead to correct assignments being excluded , and thus also to incorrect structures .
population	We have investigated , systematically , for three proteins of different size , the influence of the chemical shift tolerance limits ( Delta ) and of the number of simulated annealing ( SA ) cooling steps on the performance of the software ARIA .
outcome	Large tolerance windows , and the correspondingly high levels of ambiguity , did not cause problems when appropriately slower cooling was used in our SA protocol .
outcome	In cases where a high percentage of well-converged structures was not achieved , we demonstrate that it is more productive to calculate fewer structures whilst applying slow cooling , than to calculate many structures with fast cooling .
outcome	In this way , high-quality structures were obtained even for proteins whose NMR spectra showed great degeneracy , and where there was much inconsistency in peak alignment between different samples .
outcome	The method described herein opens the way to the automated structure determination of larger proteins from NMR data .

###15323217
background	Elevated levels of total and low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol and low levels of high density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol are important risk factors for coronary heart disease .
background	Another established predictor of cardiovascular disease is obesity .
background	Obesity and overweight are widespread phenomena and they have reached epidemic proportions in the developed countries , including Poland .
background	Only 30 % of people in the Lublin region have normal weight ( BMI < 25 ) .
population	The aim of this study was to asses the relationship between BMI ( body mass index ) and blood lipids in the population of 83 people from Aleksandrow commune ( 64 women and 19 men aged 28-81 ) who spontaneously applied for medical examination performed as stud
outcome	Mean total cholesterol and triglycerides concentrations were higher in obese persons in comparison to normal weight subjects and HDL cholesterol concentration was lower in obese subjects as compared to normal and overweight individuals .
outcome	Differences in mean concentrations of LDL cholesterol were not significant .
outcome	A linear correlation between the degree of obesity and plasma level of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides was shown .
outcome	In conclusion , obesity and overweight are accompanied by unfavourable blood lipids patterns and in a considerable proportion of overweight or obese patients other risk factors for coronary heart disease , such as hypertension , smoking , diabetes or family h

###8562664
background	The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that obsessive-compulsive symptoms are temporarily worsened by acute intravenous clomipramine , suggesting that there is a basal hypersensitivity of serotonin ( 5-HT ) receptors in obsessive-compulsive ( OC ) pa
background	We also investigated the relationship of the effects of acute ( intravenous ) and chronic ( oral ) administration of clomipramine .
population	Twenty-eight OC patients were recruited .
intervention	The first part of the study included placebo and clomipramine infusions and monitoring of OC symptoms by 100 mm Visual Analogue self-rated scales ( VAS ) .
outcome	There was significant worsening of obsessions in the whole sample during clomipramine infusion .
intervention	The second part included standardized 10-week oral treatments with clomipramine and evaluation of clinical efficacy .
outcome	Among the 18 patients who completed the second part of the study , oral clomipramine significantly reduced OC symptoms , but OC patients who had become worse after clomipramine infusion showed higher Y-BOCS scores .

###15332420
background	Bisphosphonates are the treatment of choice for hypercalcaemia of malignancy ( HCM ) but there is no consensus regarding which drug or dose should be given .
intervention	We designed a systematic review to investigate the efficacy of bisphosphonates in the treatment of HCM .
other	We identified randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) by searching electronic databases , scanning of reference lists , and consultation with experts and pharmaceutical companies .
other	Foreign papers were translated .
other	Inclusion criteria were RCTs , confirmed malignant disease and measurement of serum calcium ( ionized or corrected for albumin ) postrehydration .
other	The primary outcome was number of patients achieving normocalcaemia .
other	Secondary outcomes were time to normocalcaemia , time to relapse and toxicity .
outcome	Twenty-seven papers and two abstracts , using intravenous bisphosphonates , fulfilled the inclusion criteria .
outcome	Data from 26 studies were used in analyses .
outcome	Due to the heterogeneity of studies , meta-analysis could not be performed .
outcome	Pamidronate was more effective than placebo , mithramycin , etidronate ( 7.5 mg/kg ) and low-dose clodronate ( 600 mg ) , but equal to higher dose clodronate ( 1500 mg ) .
outcome	Clodronate and etidronate were superior to placebo ; incadronate was superior to elcatonin ; gallium nitrate was superior to etidronate .
outcome	No difference was seen between alendronate and clodronate .
outcome	Three dose finding studies showed no difference between 30-90 mg of pamidronate , but one well designed study showed increasing efficacy with increasing dose .
outcome	Studies using increasing doses of ibandronate ( 0.6-4 mg ) , alendronate ( 2.5-15 mg ) , and incadronate ( 2.5-10mg ) , showed a dose response .
outcome	Duration of administration of pamidronate did not affect efficacy ( six studies ) .
outcome	Bisphosphonates normalize calcium in > 70 % patients with minimal side effects .
outcome	Aminobisphosphonates are most effective at maintaining normocalcaemia and should be given in high dose irrespective of baseline serum calcium .

###10465501
background	Previous studies suggested that magnetization transfer ratio ( MTR ) histograms are highly correlated with other magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) measures and can be used as a reliable method for quantifying overall disease burden in multiple sclerosis ( MS )
background	However , the relative influence of burden and severity of macroscopic MS lesions and degree of brain atrophy on various MTR histogram parameters has not yet been fully elucidated .
other	Aim of the present study was to investigate which MRI measure best predicts the values of MTR histogram parameters in MS patients .
population	Forty-two MS patients underwent brain dual-echo .
intervention	T1-weighted and magnetization transfer imaging ( MTI ) MRI scans .
other	Hyperintense lesion load ( LL ) on proton density ( PD ) - weighted and hypointense LL on T1-weighted images were measured using a local thresholding technique .
other	A measure of brain atrophy was derived from T1-weighted images by computing the volume of brain tissue segmented from a slab of five consecutive slices rostral to the velum interpositum .
other	On MTI scans , MTR histogram analysis was performed for the whole brain and average lesion MTR was also calculated .
outcome	PD-weighted LL , T1-weighted LL and brain volume were significantly correlated with several MTI-derived measures .
outcome	When a multivariate analysis was performed , brain volume alone significantly predicted the values of all the MTR histogram-derived measures ( P values ranged from 0.003 to 0.0002 ) .
outcome	The ratio between hypointense T1-weighted and hyperintense PD-weighted LL significantly predicted average lesion MTR ( P < 0.05 ) .
outcome	Our results confirm that MTR can be used as a reliable method to assess both the overall disease burden and the individual lesion intrinsic nature in MS patients .
outcome	The significant influence of brain atrophy on MTR histogram parameters supports the concept that this method also provides information on the loss of brain parenchyma in MS.

###16910813
background	Patients with chronic kidney disease have a shortened life expectancy and carry a high symptom burden .
background	Clinicians need sophisticated expertise in pain and symptom management and skills in communication to meet the many needs of this population .
background	This article reviews the literature and discusses prognosis , ethical and legal considerations , symptoms , treatment , and end-of-life issues .
background	The field of nephrology is shifting from an exclusive focus on increasing survival to one that provides greater attention to quality of life .
background	There is an opportunity to integrate many of the advances of palliative medicine into the comprehensive treatment of these patients .

###15220226
background	Alendronate sodium ( ALN ) increases bone mineral density ( BMD ) in heterogeneous populations of postmenopausal women , but its effect is unknown in women with type 2 diabetes .
other	The objective of this project was to compare changes in BMD during 3 years of ALN treatment versus placebo in diabetic women .
population	We used data from the Fracture Intervention Trial , a randomized blinded placebo-controlled trial conducted at 11 centers in which 6458 women aged 54-81 years with a femoral neck BMD of < or = 0.68 g/cm ( 2 ) were randomly assigned to either placebo or 5 mg/d
other	BMD was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry .
other	Type 2 diabetes ( n = 297 ) was defined by self-report , use of insulin or other hypoglycemic agents , or a random nonfasting glucose value > or = 200 mg/dl .
outcome	In diabetic women , 3 years of ALN treatment was associated with increased BMD at all sites studied , including 6.6 % at the lumbar spine and 2.4 % at the hip , whereas women in the placebo group experienced a decrease in BMD at all sites except the lumbar spi
outcome	The safety/tolerability of ALN was similar to placebo , except for abdominal pain , which was more likely in the ALN group .
outcome	ALN increased BMD relative to placebo in older women with type 2 diabetes and was generally well tolerated as a treatment for osteoporosis .
outcome	Increases in BMD with ALN therapy compared with placebo were similar between women with and without diabetes .

###12392334
background	To review the change in number of referrals to speech and language therapy for dysphasia and dysphagia over one decade .
study design	This retrospective study analyses data collected on an information system developed specifically for the use of speech and language therapists in the management of their services .
population	Eleven health care providers used the system between 1985 and 1995 and recorded details of 73758 patients referred to speech and language therapy during that period .
outcome	Whilst there were 12 times as many dysphasic patients as dysphagic patients referred to speech and language therapy in 1987 , the position was reversed by 1995 with twice as many dysphagic as dysphasic patients being referred to these services .
outcome	Dysphagia in 1987 accounted for less than 1 % of the referrals to speech and language therapy .
outcome	This percentage increased , until in 1995 20 % of referrals were for dysphagia .
outcome	No causal relationship between the changes in referral to speech and language therapy for these two groups has been established in this study .
outcome	However , there has been a significant increase in referral to speech and language therapy of people with dysphagia .
outcome	Whilst referrals for dysphasia have increased , they represent a lower percentage increase and now receive less treatment per case than in 1987 .

###2912613
background	Atlantoaxial subluxation has been treated conventionally by Gallie posterior fusion .
background	This technique , however , has disadvantages such as the frequent occurrence of pseudarthrosis , a high probability of relapse , and the necessity of long-standing strict external fixation until bone fusion .
population	To overcome these problems , posterior occipitoatlantoaxial fusion was performed using a rectangular rod that assures strong internal fixation in 16 patients with atlantoaxial subluxation .
other	The condition was complicated by superior migration of the dens in five patients .
outcome	Clinical and roentgenographic examinations before and after the operation showed improvements in neurological symptoms and in pain in the neck and occipital region in all patients .
outcome	Bone fusion was observed in all patients and reduction , performed to the extent possible during the operation , was retained adequately .
outcome	The present method , which provides strong internal fixation , allows bone fusion and early initiation of rehabilitation with a simple external support of the neck .
outcome	It also facilitates laminectomy of C1 in patients with associated myelopathy .
outcome	This procedure , therefore , is particularly effective in patients with marked instability or with rheumatoid arthritis and makes postoperative application of a halo vest or skull traction unnecessary .

###11821967
study design	Retrospective analysis of augmentation ileocystoplasty for neurogenic bladder .
background	To analyze the effects and complications of augmentation ileocystoplasty in patients with neurogenic bladder due to spinal cord injury ( SCI ) or spina bifida retrospectively .
other	Department of Urology , Kanagawa Rehabilitation Hospital , Japan .
population	We have treated 11 patients with neurogenic bladder due to SCI and 10 patients with spinal bifida with augmentation ileocystoplasty since 1989 .
other	The purpose of the treatment was to stop vesicoureteral reflux ( VUR ) and/or amelioration of urinary incontinence .
other	In 17 of 21 cases , the antireflux operation was received simultaneously .
other	All cases performed clean intermittent self catheterization postoperatively .
outcome	Urinary incontinence improved in all cases and only transient recurrence of VUR was observed in the follow-up term .
outcome	Complications occurred in patients with SCI , but they could be treated conservatively .
outcome	Augmentation ileocystoplasty is a good treatment option for contracted bladder or VUR , which occurs in patients with neurogenic bladder .

###1848139
background	Chemosensitivity test has its role in cancer therapy .
background	Using an accurate , efficient , and simple way to choose the proper chemosensitive drugs in our clinical study will help advance our work .
background	The MTT assay is a rapid , precise , and new method to perform drug sensitivity assay .
population	We used an ovarian cancer cell line ( OC-3L-VGH ) to compare the accuracy of the MTT and the [ 3H ] - TdR incorporation assay in measuring chemosensitivity of 7 anticancer drugs .
outcome	Good correlation was observed between the MTT and the [ 3H ] - TdR assay for drug sensitivity testing ( r = 0.893 , P less than 0.001 ) .
outcome	Based on this study we found it may be preferable to use the MTT assay for chemosensitivity screening .

###14571335
background	The purpose of this research was to ascertain whether the existence of swallowing apnea ( SA ) was the sole result of glottic closure or the result of its own neural mechanism .
population	Forty individuals served as participants .
other	Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 10 individuals with laryngectomy less than one year and 10 individuals greater than one year , respectively .
other	Groups 3 and 4 comprised 20 individuals who were age - and gender-matched to Groups 1 and 2 .
other	SA duration ( SAD ) was acquired during saliva swallows and 10 - , 15 - , 20 - , and 25-ml water boluses .
intervention	A repeated measures ANOVA was performed to determine mean differences in SAD as a function of group and bolus volume .
outcome	Significant main effects of group and bolus volume were found and a significant interaction of group x bolus volume was found .
outcome	In post-hoc analyses , both groups with laryngectomy exhibited statistically longer SADs than control groups .
outcome	In single-df comparisons , the laryngectomy group over one year exhibited significantly shorter SADs on smaller versus larger bolus volumes .
outcome	Even though SA is theoretically no longer needed in individuals with laryngectomy , the presence of SA remained in both groups with laryngectomy .
outcome	Thus , these results support the hypothesis that SA is the result of its own neural command .

###9863930
background	Enoxaparin , a low molecular weight heparin , has been demonstrated to be effective in the prophylaxis and treatment of deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) in the general population .
background	This study presents an analysis of the costs of subcutaneous ( SQ ) enoxaparin compared with intravenous ( IV ) heparin .
population	Data were gathered on six spinal cord injured ( SCI ) patients in an acute freestanding rehabilitation center who were initially treated with SQ enoxaparin ( n = 3 ) or IV heparin ( n = 3 ) for a proximal DVT .
outcome	No patients in either group developed further clinical complications .
outcome	Comparison of the total costs of each treatment was performed , including the direct cost of the drug , as well as some of the costs of administration .
outcome	Although the cost of enoxaparin per unit dose is higher , the total costs of enoxaparin are slightly lower , because its labor and administration costs are less .
outcome	Subcutaneous enoxaparin is a safe , cost-effective , and less labor-intensive treatment , and can be of substantial benefit in the treatment of DVT in SCI patients in the rehabilitation setting .

###4053455
background	Clearly , changes in skeletal bone mass are one of the major issues of potential clinical concern in the health care of the thin premenopausal woman .
background	Each of the three parameters of skeletal mass -- 1 ) initial pubertal growth , 2 ) rate of bone loss , and 3 ) superimposed estrogen-deficient osteoporosis -- may be negatively influenced by syndromes associated with low body weight and weight loss .
background	Inherent in constitutional thinness and nutritional patterns of thin women are alterations in bone growth and rates of bone loss which may predispose to osteopenia and fracture in later adulthood .
background	When these negative factors are compounded by hypothalamic/pituitary-mediated hypoestrogenism , decreased initial bone mass and true osteoporosis may result .
background	We now possess excellent radiographic tools for monitoring bone mass but do not have the capability to predict fracture or diagnose osteoporosis .
background	Urgently needed are longitudinal prospective studies of the dynamics of both trabecular and cortical bone growth and epidemiologic correlation as to the clinical impact ( fractures ) of decreased BMD in thin women .
background	For the present , a physiologically oriented program directed toward prophylaxis -- maximizing initial bone mass , decreasing rates of adult bone loss , and minimizing active osteoporosis -- embracing early dietary calcium supplementation and hormonal therapy on
background	Indeed , this bodily `` disease '' of osteopenia may not be a pathologic process of bone metabolism at all , but truly an `` ailment of the spiritual part '' -- secondary manifestations of sociologic and endocrinologic alterations inherent in the

###2355747
background	In attempts to increase the specificity of the CA 12-5 test the ratio of CA 12-5 and CEA concentrations has been determined in 155 cancer patients , all of whom had an increased serum CA 12-5 .
population	The patients included 47 with epithelial ovarian cancer , 38 with colorectal cancer , 24 with cervical cancer , 20 with lung cancer , 17 with gastric cancer , and 9 with pancreatic cancer .
outcome	The CA 12-5 / CEA ratio in serum of patients with ovarian cancer ranged from 30 to 920 ( mean 251 ) , whereas in other types of cancer the highest ratio was 240 and the mean was 13 .
outcome	All 47 patients with ovarian cancer , but only 7 of the 108 patients with other types of cancer , showed a CA 12-5 / CEA ratio greater than 25 .
outcome	About 10 % of the patients with gastric or colorectal cancer but none of those with other types of cancer showed an increased ratio .
outcome	As the predictive value of a CA 12-5 / CEA ratio of less than 25 excluding ovarian cancer is 100 % , we recommend measuring the CEA concentration in all those with increased CA 12-5 and calculation of the CA 12-5 / CEA ratio .

###18068430
background	A low peak oxygen uptake ( pVO ( 2 ) ) and steep VE/VCO ( 2 ) slope are independently associated with a worse prognosis in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) .
background	We wished to confirm whether combining these variables as a ratio would lead to a more accurate predictor of prognosis than using either alone .
population	388 CHF patients completed a treadmill-based cardiopulmonary exercise test ( CPET ) to volitional exhaustion using a modified Bruce protocol .
outcome	212 CHF patients completed the CPET with a peak RER > or = 1.0 .
outcome	Of these , 48 patients died and one was transplanted during follow-up .
outcome	In surviving patients , the median follow-up period was 42 months ( IQR 34-49 months ) .
outcome	The ratio VE/VCO ( 2 ) slope/pVO ( 2 ) was calculated for each individual and its ability to predict outcome compared with other variables .
outcome	The Cox multivariable survival analysis showed that pVO ( 2 ) was the strongest independent predictor of mortality in CHF patients .
outcome	Our study shows that the composite variable VE/VCO ( 2 ) slope/pVO ( 2 ) is a less effective prognosticator than pVO ( 2 ) alone in patients with CHF .

###9345462
study design	The design and conduct of a randomized , double-blinded , placebo-controlled , multicenter , phase III study of recombinant interferon beta-1a ( IFN-beta-1a ) as treatment for exacerbating-remitting MS are described , as are baseline characteristics of the study
background	The purpose of the study was to determine if 6.0 x 10 ( 6 ) IU ( 30 micrograms ) of IFN-beta-1a , administered by weekly intramuscular ( i.m. ) injections , was effective in delaying the onset of sustained disability .
other	The primary outcome measure was time to onset of treatment failure , defined as a worsening on the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) of greater than or equal to 1.0 point compared with baseline , persisting for at least 6 months .
other	An intent-to-treat design was used .
other	The primary outcome measure was analyzed using the Mantel-Cox log-rank statistic and Kaplan-Meier survival curves .
other	Secondary outcomes included quantitative measures of upper and lower extremity function , neuropsychological test performance , functional and quality of life assessments and several measures derived from annual brain MRI studies .
other	Entry criteria included prestudy exacerbation rates of at least 0.67 per year and EDSS scores of 1.0-3 .5 .
population	A total of 301 MS patients were randomly assigned to receive weekly i.m. injections of IFN-beta-1a or placebo .
outcome	The average age of the study population at entry was 37 years ; 92 % were Caucasian and 73 % were women .
outcome	The mean prestudy disease duration was 6.5 years , mean prestudy exacerbation rate was 1.2 per year and the mean EDSS score was 2.3 .
outcome	The randomization yielded well-balanced treatment arms .
outcome	Various aspects of the study are discussed , including : ( 1 ) the decision to focus study design on sustained disability ; ( 2 ) the rationale for the treatment regimen ; ( 3 ) measures taken to assure the reliability of the primary outcome measure ; and ( 4 ) a desc

###1705326
background	We observed an increase in cerebral blood flow ( CBF ) for control of pain but were otherwise normal .
population	Based on that observation , we implanted stimulators for cervical spinal cord stimulation ( cSCS ) in three patients who had symptomatic cerebral ischemia .
other	Two had severe basivertebral occlusive disease and one had bilateral carotid occlusive disease .
outcome	In all three cases , cSCS alleviated the symptoms of ischemia .
outcome	Xenon-CBF studies or single-photon emission computer tomography ( SPECT ) showed increased CBF in response to cSCS .
outcome	Although no mechanism clearly responsible for this remarkable therapeutic efficacy can be proposed yet , further clinical trials of cSCS for inoperable cerebral ischemia may be justified .

###14659506
background	Clinically , chronic pain and hyperalgesia induced by muscle injury are disabling and difficult to treat .
background	Cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying chronic muscle-induced hyperalgesia are not well understood .
population	For this reason , we developed an animal model where repeated injections of acidic saline into one gastrocnemius muscle produce bilateral , long-lasting mechanical hypersensitivity of the paw ( i.e. hyperalgesia ) without associated tissue damage .
other	Since acid sensing ion channels ( ASICs ) are found on primary afferent fibers and respond to decreases in pH , we tested the hypothesis that ASICs on primary afferent fibers innervating muscle are critical to development of hyperalgesia and central sensitization in response to repeated intramuscular acid .
outcome	Dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating muscle express ASIC3 and respond to acidic pH with fast , transient inward and sustained currents that resemble those of ASICs .
outcome	Mechanical hyperalgesia produced by repeated intramuscular acid injections is prevented by prior treatment of the muscle with the non-selective ASIC antagonist , amiloride , suggesting ASICs might be involved .
outcome	ASIC3 knockouts do not develop mechanical hyperalgesia to repeated intramuscular acid injection when compared to wildtype littermates .
outcome	In contrast , ASIC1 knockouts develop hyperalgesia similar to their wildtype littermates .
outcome	Extracellular recordings of spinal wide dynamic range ( WDR ) neurons from wildtype mice show an expansion of the receptive field to include the contralateral paw , an increased response to von Frey filaments applied to the paw both ipsilaterally and contral
outcome	These changes in WDR neurons do not occur in ASIC3 knockouts .
outcome	Thus , activation of ASIC3s on muscle afferents is required for development of mechanical hyperalgesia and central sensitization that normally occurs in response to repeated intramuscular acid .
outcome	Therefore , interfering with ASIC3 might be of benefit in treatment or prevention of chronic hyperalgesia .

###15065482
background	The commissioning of healthcare services is increasingly linked to the availability of rigorous evidence of clinical and cost effectiveness .
background	In the current climate , ` rigorous evidence ' is synonymous with the randomised controlled trial ( RCT ) .
background	Consequently , health technologies are often funded in preference to service developments due to an imbalance in the availability of strong evidence to support service developments .
background	Simultaneously , there is an increasing policy emphasis on patient choice and individualized care in the NHS .
background	In this paper Bill Watson , Susan Procter and Wendy Cochrane discuss the implications of using experimental methods in service development research , with reference to an ongoing RCT evaluating the component parts of pulmonary rehabilitation in people with

###15140518
other	Objectives
background	To evaluate the psychometric properties of the Body Image Scale ( originally designed for use in cancer ) in women with benign gynaecological conditions .
population	Prospective completion of the Body Image Scale by women participating in the EVALUATE Hysterectomy Trial .
other	The scale was completed pre-operatively , then 6 weeks , 4 and 12 months post-operatively .
other	The psychometric properties were evaluated by assessing the reliability , response prevalence , discriminant validity and sensitivity to change .
other	Factor analysis was also conducted to determine the scale structure .
outcome	The Body Image Scale showed good reliability and clinical validity .
outcome	Differences between sub-groups of women were detected , demonstrating good discriminant validity .
outcome	The Body Image Scale was shown to be responsive to changes in body image .
outcome	The Body Image Scale was shown to be a reliable and valid tool for assessing body image in women with benign gynaecological conditions and for use in clinical trials involving such women .

###9988054
study design	We report results from a multicenter , placebo-controlled , randomized , double-blind comparison of the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine and fluoxetine in outpatients with major depression .
population	Across five U.S. sites , 128 outpatients ( mean age : 41.3 + / - 12.6 ; 63 men and 65 women ) with moderate to moderately severe major depression without a history of mania or hypomania were recruited between 1993 and 1994 .
intervention	All 128 patients completed a 1-week placebo washout period , and were then randomized to 12 weeks of double-blind treatment with paroxetine up to 50 mg/day ( n = 55 ) , fluoxetine up to 80 mg/day ( n = 54 ) , or placebo ( n = 19 ) .
other	Subjects were evaluated weekly for the first 4 weeks , then at weeks 6 , 9 , and 12 with the 21-item HAMD and the Covi Anxiety Scale .
outcome	There were no significant differences among the three treatment groups in baseline and endpoint depression and anxiety severity , as well as in the degree of depression and anxiety improvement .
outcome	There were no statistically significant differences in rates or mean numbers of adverse events between paroxetine-treated patients and fluoxetine-treated patients .
outcome	In summary , our results , although limited by the lack of a significant difference from placebo in treatment outcome , suggest that the SSRIs paroxetine and fluoxetine have comparable antidepressant and antianxiety efficacies among depressed outpatients , as

###2300240
population	We performed 15 dynamic gadolinium-DTPA ( Gd-DTPA ) - enhanced MRI studies in 8 patients with relapsing and remitting multiple sclerosis ; 7 were follow-up studies .
other	We measured the time course of enhancement in 102 enhancing lesions for up to 384 minutes , with rest breaks .
outcome	Immediate postcontrast MRIs demonstrated many different patterns of enhancement .
outcome	We observed both uniformly enhancing and ring enhancing lesions .
outcome	The enhancing regions were often less extensive than the corresponding high signal on T2-weighted images .
outcome	Three lesions were seen with Gd-DTPA but not on unenhanced scans ; 1 was seen on unenhanced scans 10 days later , suggesting that blood-brain barrier disturbance may precede other MRI signs of MS lesions .
outcome	Three months later , some high-signal areas on T2-weighted scans had decreased in size to resemble the areas previously outlined by Gd-DTPA .
outcome	This technique provides useful information about the pathogenesis and behavior of MS lesions .

###15158021
population	We tested the effect of age at the time of spinal cord injury ( SCI ) on locomotor recovery , in open field tests , and mechanical hyperalgesia , using paw withdrawal frequency ( PWF ) in response to noxious mechanical stimuli , in male Sprague-Dawley rats after
other	Behavioral outcomes were measured weekly for 4 weeks in both SCI and sham groups .
outcome	Following SCI , the young and adult groups recovered significantly more locomotor function , at a more rapid rate , than did the middle-age group .
outcome	The PWF of the young group was significantly increased , the adult group was significantly decreased , and the middle-age group showed no significant change in fore - and hindlimbs when compared to other age groups , pre-injury and sham controls .
outcome	These results support age-dependent behavioral outcomes after SCI .

###7487440
background	Employers and insurers are interested in being able to use cost-effective interventions for returning injured workers to the workplace .
background	Unfortunately , truly objective information is lacking .
background	The purpose of this and two subsequent review articles was to perform thorough scrutiny and methodologic comparison among all obtainable , published randomized and controlled studies on low back pain ( LBP ) interventions leading to return to work .
other	The study was confined to English language articles published from 1975 through 1993 .
other	Of more than 4,000 LBP citations , more than 500 were chosen for review .
other	Of that number , 35 articles met the selection criteria of randomization , reasonable controls , and work return comparisons .
intervention	This paper focuses on the 10 articles relating to interventions for acute ( less than 4 weeks ) LBP , and considers bed rest , exercise , spinal manipulation , back school , and case management .
other	A 26-point quality system was used to compare the methodologic rigor of each article .
outcome	This literature survey demonstrated the meager scientific foundations on which our industrial rehabilitation programs are based .

###8242577
background	Normal skeletal integrity is maintained by physiological bone turnover through a coupled process of bone resorption , mediated by osteoclasts , followed by new bone formation , mediated by osteoblasts .
background	Major features of the pathogenesis of cancer-associated skeletal destruction are enhanced osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and disruption of normal bone formation .
background	In this article , the literature on the pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of metastatic bone disease is discussed .
background	Animal and clinical trials investigating novel bone targeted agents , emphasizing the bisphosphonates , are critically assessed .
background	The most frequent clinical manifestations of bone metastases are pain , fracture , immobility , spinal cord compression , and hypercalcemia .
background	New treatments under study for patients with bone metastases include agents specifically targeted to the skeleton such as bone-seeking radioisotopes and bisphosphonates .
background	Studies in animal models of metastatic bone disease show that these bisphosphonates are able to inhibit tumor-induced osteolysis and are potentially useful in this condition .
background	Bisphosphonates have been investigated in several clinical trials of patients with skeletal metastases from breast cancer , prostate cancer , and multiple myeloma .
background	Overall , the studies investigating bone targeted radioisotopes or bisphosphonates for the treatment of morbidity due to skeletal metastases have been inconclusive .
background	An improved understanding of the pathogenesis of metastatic bone disease and preclinical studies with bisphosphonates suggest that these agents may have a role in the treatment of this disorder .
background	Additional trials of new generation bisphosphonates , employing a rigorously controlled , randomized study design with adequate numbers of subjects , are needed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of this class of agents in this setting .

###8712314
population	In this paper are assessed through ENT-exam , rhinomanometry and cephalometry both bipedal and in dorsal decubitus , the anatomical alterations occurring in the upper airways in 100 consecutive patients , polysomnographically diagnosed of SAOS .
population	The patients were classified in 4 groups ( after Fujita 's modified classification ) : 2 having oropharyngeal obstruction ( I and IIa ) and other 2 with hypopharyngeal obstruction ( IIb and III ) , which were subdivided in its time with nasal obstruction present (
outcome	Group I and IIa ( 68 % ) - theoretical candidates to an uvulopalatopharyngoplasty , UPPP-showed its predominance , followed by a high incidence of nasal obstruction ( N + , 48 % ) and a non negligeable number of hypopharyngeal alterations ( 32 % ) .

###15028056
background	Coronary sinus cannulation and placement of left ventricular ( LV ) leads can be difficult .
background	Occasionally alternative approaches are required .
background	We report the first case of a modified transseptal LV endocardial lead placement via the left axillary vein for cardiac resynchronization .

###19607887
background	Effective treatment of chronic pain with morphine is limited by decreases in the drug 's analgesic action with chronic administration ( antinociceptive tolerance ) .
other	Because opioids are mainstays of pain management , restoring their efficacy has great clinical importance .
background	We have recently reported that formation of peroxynitrite ( ONOO ( - ) , PN ) in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord plays a critical role in the development of morphine antinociceptive tolerance and have further documented that nitration and enzymatic inactivat
outcome	We now report for the first time that antinociceptive tolerance in mice is also associated with the inactivation of MnSOD at supraspinal sites .
outcome	Inactivation of MnSOD led to nitroxidative stress as evidenced by increased levels of products of oxidative DNA damage and activation of the nuclear factor poly ( ADP-ribose ) polymerase in whole brain homogenates .
outcome	Co-administration of morphine with potent Mn porphyrin-based peroxynitrite scavengers , Mn ( III ) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis ( N-ethylpyridinium-2-yl ) porphyrin ( MnTE-2-PyP ( 5 + ) ) and Mn ( III ) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis ( N-n-hexylpyridinium-2-yl ) porphyrin ( MnTnHex-2-PyP ( 5 + ) ) ( 1 )
outcome	The more lipophilic analogue , MnTnHex-2-PyP ( 5 + ) was able to cross the blood-brain barrier at higher levels than its lipophylic counterpart MnTE-2-PyP ( 5 + ) and was about 30-fold more efficacious .
outcome	Collectively , these data suggest that PN-mediated enzymatic inactivation of supraspinal MnSOD provides a source of nitroxidative stress , which in turn contributes to central sensitization associated with the development of morphine antinociceptive toleran
outcome	These results support our general contention that PN-targeted therapeutics may have potential as adjuncts to opiates in pain management .

###11082454
background	Adenosine kinase ( AK ; EC 2.7.1.20 ) is a key intracellular enzyme regulating intra-and extracellular concentrations of adenosine ( ADO ) , an endogenous neuromodulator , antinociceptive , and anti-inflammatory autocoid .
background	AK inhibition provides a means of potentiating local tissue concentrations of endogenous ADO , and AK inhibitors may have therapeutic potential as analgesic and anti-inflammatory agents .
population	The effects of ABT-702 , a novel , potent ( IC ( 50 ) = 1.7 nM ) , and selective non-nucleoside AK inhibitor were examined in rat models of nociception and acute inflammation .
outcome	ABT-702 was orally effective and fully efficacious to suppress nociception in a spectrum of pain models in the rat , including carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia , the formalin test of persistent pain , and models of nerve injury-induced and diabetic n
outcome	ABT-702 was also effective in the carrageenan-induced paw edema model of acute inflammation ( ED ( 50 ) = 70 micromol/kg p.o. ) .
outcome	The antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects of ABT-702 were blocked by selective ADO receptor antagonists , consistent with endogenous ADO accumulation and ADO receptor activation as a mechanism of action .
outcome	The antinociceptive effects of ABT-702 were not blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone .
outcome	In addition , ABT-702 showed less potential to develop tolerance to its antinociceptive effects compared with morphine .
outcome	ABT-702 had no significant effect on rotorod performance or heart rate ( at 30-300 micromol/kg p.o. ) , mean arterial pressure ( at 30-100 micromol/kg p.o. ) , or exploratory locomotor activity ( at < / = 10 micromol/kg p.o. ) .
outcome	Thus , ABT-702 is a novel , non-nucleoside AK inhibitor , with a nonopioid , non-nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug mechanism of action , which shows antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory activity in vivo .

###11532478
background	To compare the outcome of second and third cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer to the outcome of first attempts at IVF with blastocyst transfer .
study design	Retrospective study .
other	Private ART center .
population	Three hundred and four patients undergoing treatment with in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer , 87 of which underwent at least one cycle of re-treatment after failing to achieve pregnancy in their first cycle .
intervention	Bipronucleate oocytes were grown for up to 144 hours and subsequently transferred when at least one embryo attained the expanded blastocyst stage .
other	Pregnancy and implantation rates .
outcome	Pregnancy rates per retrieval were significantly higher for patients undergoing their first cycle of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer ( 36 % ) compared to those undergoing their second ( 19 % ) or their third ( 9 % ) cycles of treatment .
outcome	Implantation rates per embryo were also higher for first cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer ( 30 % ) compared to second ( 18 % ) or third cycles ( 8 % ) .
outcome	Pregnancy and implantation rates decline dramatically in repeated cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer following one or more unsuccessful cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer .

###15616405
population	To discuss the appropriate standard of care in randomized controlled trials of titrated therapies in critically ill patients .
background	The debate over the appropriate standard of care in randomized controlled trials was sparked by the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network trial of low tidal volume ventilation .
outcome	In this trial , patients were randomized to either low or traditional tidal volume ventilation , and the investigators reported that low tidal volume ventilation significantly improved survival in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome .
outcome	However , it was argued that the control group used in this trial was not reflective of current practice patterns and that the improvement in survival may have been derived from patients in the control group being placed at increased risk .
outcome	This debate forced intensivists to consider what defines an appropriate standard-of-care control group in randomized controlled trials of titrated therapies .
outcome	If titrated therapies are to be studied safely , the mechanism behind the titration must be understood and incorporated into the control group .
outcome	Failure to include a comparator group receiving current practice creates a study design that may jeopardize patient safety because there is no control group representing probable patient outcome outside of the trial .
outcome	Additionally , randomizing patients to the extremes of a range of care without incorporation of a current practice control group prevents the investigators from making valid recommendations for changing current practice .
outcome	The incorporation of current practice patterns into randomized controlled trials of titrated therapies is essential for producing generalizable results and safeguarding patients .

###12686402
background	The use of induced hypothermia in the treatment of traumatic spinal cord injury ( SCI ) has been studied extensively between the 1960s and 1970s .
background	Although the treatment showed some promise , it became less popular by the 1980s , mainly because of its adverse effects .
background	However , a revival of hypothermia in the treatment of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) in the last decade has encouraged neuroscientists to conduct experiments to reevaluate the potential benefits of hypothermia in traumatic SCI .
background	All laboratory investigations studying the mechanisms of action and/or the efficacy of induced hypothermia in treating experimental traumatic SCI published in the last decade were reviewed .
background	Although efficacy of hypothermia in improving functional outcome of mild to moderate traumatic SCI has been demonstrated , hypothermia may not be protective against severe traumatic SCI .
background	At present , induced hypothermia has yet to be recognized or approved as a potential treatment having therapeutic value for traumatic SCI in humans .
background	The continued search for a possible synergistic effect of induced hypothermia and pharmacological therapy may yield some promise .
background	It has also been deduced from these laboratory studies that hyperthermia is deleterious and rigorous measures to prevent hyperthermia should be taken to minimize the propagation of secondary neuronal damage after traumatic SCI .

###10863050
background	A 78-year-old male patient had chronic , unrelieved abdominal pain due to mesenteric ischaemia .
background	Unsuccessful pharmacological approaches included oral morphine plus coadjuvants as well as a sympathetic celiac plexus block which gave pain relief that lasted for 72 h.
intervention	In order to obtain long-lasting relief , a trial epidural stimulating electrode was implanted after obtaining informed consent and Ethical Committee approval .
outcome	Complete analgesia was achieved during a trial period of 2 weeks .
outcome	Thereafter , a spinal cord stimulator was implanted .
outcome	At the time of writing , 11 months after implantation , the degree of analgesia is complete .
outcome	We believe that spinal cord stimulation may represent an alternative approach in controlling pain due to mesenteric ischaemia .

###15233713
background	We examined the relationships between long-term treatment response , side-effects and drug discontinuation in panic disorder ( PD ) - agoraphobia .
population	A total of 326 patients were naturalistically treated with antidepressants and followed for a period of 3 years .
other	All patients were evaluated by means of the Panic Disorder/Agoraphobia Interview and the Longitudinal Interview Follow-up Examination ( LIFE-UP ) .
outcome	A total of 179 patients interrupted pharmacological treatment .
outcome	Among them , 26.8 % were not traceable ; 36.9 % had deemed further contact with the psychiatrist unnecessary because of remission .
outcome	Other reasons for interruption were : ineffectiveness ( 18.4 % ) , side-effects ( 10.6 % ) and personal reasons ( 7.3 % ) .
outcome	Patients who interrupted pharmacological treatment because of symptom remission remained in the study for a longer period than those patients who interrupted their treatment because of inefficacy .
outcome	In the long-term treatment of PD with antidepressants , a high percentage of patients who have achieved symptom remission tend to default from further treatment ; adherence to long-term treatment with antidepressants was predicted by severe and long-lasting

###10952703
background	To examine the hypothesis that , apart from prematurity , intrauterine growth status ( expressed as gestational age specific birth weight standard deviation scores ) , neonatal factors , and duration of dexamethasone treatment influence bone mineralisation in e
population	In this prospective study , groups consisted of 15 preterm small for gestational age infants ( SGA group ) and 43 preterm appropriate for gestational age infants ( AGA group ) .
other	A reference group contained 17 term infants .
other	Body size is known to affect bone mineral content ( BMC ) , therefore postnatal bone mineralisation was measured when the study infants and controls had attained a similar body size .
other	Bone mineral density ( BMD ) and BMC were determined by dual energy x ray absorptiometer of the lumbar spine ( L2-L4 ) .
outcome	Both preterm groups had significantly lower BMC and BMD than the weight matched term reference group , but no difference was found in BMC and BMD between preterm SGA and AGA infants .
outcome	In stepwise regression analysis , bone area , duration of dexamethasone treatment , weight at examination , and weight gain per week were the most significant factors , explaining 54 % of the variance of the BMC values .
outcome	In particular , weight at examination , prematurity , and possibly dexamethasone treatment , but not intrauterine growth status , affect postnatal bone mineralisation .

###6249058
population	The authors analyse results of the treatment of 120 patients with vertebrogenic radicular pain syndromes by reflexotherapy , electropuncture , electroacupuncture and acupuncture , applied both alone and combined under conditions of a neurological department .

###17305256
background	To determine the cerebrospinal fluid concentrations and the functional and pain outcomes after a single intravenous infusion of erythropoietin at the start of a standard radiotherapy and steroid protocol .
population	Ten paraparetic patients with malignant extradural spinal cord compression who were eligible for radiotherapy , lumbar puncture and intravenous epoetin alpha were enrolled .
intervention	The patients received epoetin alpha 1500 IU/kg intravenously over 30 min followed by a standardised dexamethasone and radiotherapy protocol .
intervention	A lumbar puncture and venipuncture were carried out 24-30 h after the epoetin alpha infusion .
other	The patients were followed closely at defined intervals .
outcome	Erythropoietin was detectable in the cerebrospinal fluid in all eight patients sampled ( median 92.5 mIU/ml , range 17.8-214 .0 mIU/ml ) .
outcome	Before treatment , eight patients were non-ambulatory and two patients were ambulatory with assistance .
outcome	After treatment , eight ( 80 % , 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] 44-97 % ) improved at least one functional class and recovered or maintained ambulation .
outcome	Five of seven patients ( 71 % ; 95 % CI 29-96 % ) with objective sensory deficits and one of seven ( 14 % ; 95 % CI 0-58 % ) catheter-dependent patients recovered .
outcome	Overall , 78 % ( 95 % CI 40-97 % ) had a pain response .
outcome	After an intravenous infusion of epoetin alpha , radiotherapy and steroids , high concentrations of erythropoietin were detectable in the cerebrospinal fluid .
outcome	Patients with malignant extradural spinal cord compression showed encouraging improvements in neurological function and pain .

###8301708
population	The relative specificity of CDS versus conventional TVS was assessed in 96 women with surgically excised and pathologically examined pelvic masses .
outcome	In general , CDS was more specific than TVS in 43 % of cases , both were equally specific in 41 % , neither was more specific in 10 % , and TVS was more specific than CDS in 6 % .
outcome	In particular , CDS seemed to be most specific in detecting ovarian malignancies , ovarian torsion , and ectopic pregnancy .
outcome	The positive and negative predictive values of CDS were higher in postmenopausal women than in premenopausal women .
outcome	The use of CDS as an adjunct to TVS is supported by the data from this study .

###2562385
population	In a pilot study six patients with active ulcerative colitis and six healthy controls were given fish oil ( MaxEPA ) containing 3-4 g of eicosapentaenoic acid daily for a period of 12 weeks .
outcome	There was a significant improvement in the patients ' symptoms and histological appearance of the rectal mucosa by the end of the treatment period .
outcome	There was significant fall in neutrophil chemiluminescence during treatment in patients , whereas no change was observed in the control group .
outcome	Neutrophil leukotriene B4 levels fell significantly during treatment .
outcome	Serum from patients receiving fish oil was significantly less chemotactic for neutrophils compared with control serum .
outcome	Eicosapentaenoic acid inhibited neutrophil chemotaxis and chemiluminescence in vitro .
outcome	The omega-3 fatty acids , which occur naturally in fish oils , may exert a beneficial effect by decreasing the production of inflammatory mediators .

###16955620
background	Family medicine remains strongly influenced by reactive medicine ( ` tyranny of the urgent ' ) and the fragmentation of healthcare associated with it .
background	In the first part of the present article the increasing practical and economic relevance of chronic diseases and multimorbidity were analyzed as a fundamental challenge for primary care and family medicine in particular .
background	Part two describes a forward-looking approach to guidelines and special tools which are able to guide and support future healthcare tasks of general practice .
background	Wagner 's Chronic Care Model , which was developed on the basis of numerous controlled studies , integrates empirical results , theoretical ideas and real experience within a comprehensive concept for the treatment of chronic diseases .
other	The model focuses on the ` productive interaction ' between an active patient and a proactive practice team .
outcome	The various elements of the model help to better understand healthcare in general practices , for example by establishing reminder and recall systems by means of a structured reorganization , through patient registers , the implementation of consultation hou
outcome	Case management ' is essential to the success of structured care .
outcome	Taking care of patients with major depression as an example , it is demonstrated how case management through practice assistants in general practices enables the individual needs of chronically ill patients to be better taken into account .
outcome	The professionalism of the practice team with new roles and task sharing as well as the implementation of modern strategies for the care of chronically ill patients provide a new chance and a sharpened profile for general practices of the future .

###18036191
background	N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) , derived from marine oils , have been shown to protect against various neurological diseases .
background	However , very little is known about their potential anticonvulsant properties .
other	The objective of the present study was to determine whether enrichment of brain lipids with n-3 PUFA inhibits seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol .
outcome	We demonstrate that increased brain levels of n-3 PUFA in transgenic fat-1 male mice , which are capable of de novo synthesis of n-3 PUFA from n-6 PUFA , increases latency to seizure onset by 45 % , relative to wildtype controls ( p = 0.08 ) .
outcome	Compared with wildtype littermates , transgenic fat-1 mice have significantly ( p < 0.05 ) higher levels of docosahexaenoic acid and total n-3 PUFA in brain total lipid extracts and phospholipids .
outcome	Levels of brain docosahexaenoic acid were positively correlated to seizure latency ( p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	These findings demonstrate that n-3 PUFA have anticonvulsant properties and suggest the possibility of a novel , non-drug dietary approach for the treatment of epilepsy .

###16437467
background	Some women who have threatened to give birth prematurely , subsequently settle .
background	They may then take oral tocolytic maintenance therapy to prevent preterm birth and to prolong gestation .
intervention	To assess the effects of oral betamimetic maintenance therapy after threatened preterm labour for preventing preterm birth .
other	We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Trials Register ( June 2005 ) and MEDLINE ( from 1966 to August 2003 ) .
other	Randomised controlled trials comparing oral betamimetic with alternative tocolytic therapy , placebo or no therapy , for maintenance following treatment of threatened preterm labour .
other	Two review authors independently applied the selection criteria and carried out data extraction and quality assessment of studies .
other	Eleven randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) were included .
outcome	No differences were seen for admission to the neonatal intensive care unit when betamimetics were compared with placebo ( relative risk ( RR ) 1.29 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.64 to 2.60 ; one RCT of terbutaline with 140 women ) or with magnesium ( RR 0.80 ,
outcome	The rate of preterm birth ( less than 37 weeks ) showed no significant difference in four RCTs , two comparing ritodrine with placebo/no treatment and two comparing terbutaline with placebo/no treatment ( RR 1.08 , 95 % CI 0.88 to 1.32 , 384 women ) .
outcome	No differences between betamimetics and placebo , no treatment or other tocolytics were seen for perinatal mortality and morbidity outcomes .
outcome	Some adverse effects such as tachycardia were more frequent in the betamimetics groups than the groups allocated to placebo , no treatment or another type of tocolytic .
outcome	Available evidence does not support the use of oral betamimetics for maintenance therapy after threatened preterm labour .

###18477322
background	Body weight ( BW ) mainly depends on a balance between fat storage ( lipogenesis ) and fat mobilization ( lipolysis ) in adipocytes .
background	BW changes play a role in insulin resistance ( IR ) , the inability of insulin target tissue to respond to physiological levels of insulin .
background	This results in inhibition of lipogenesis and stimulation of lipolysis .
background	Weight gain leads to IR whereas , weight loss improves insulin sensitivity ( IS ) .
other	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of weight loss and recovery of IS on the expression of genes involved in lipogenesis and lipolysis in weight losing dogs .
other	Gene expression was studied in both subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue .
population	Obese dogs received a hypoenergetic low fat high protein diet ( 0.6 x NRC recommendation ) .
other	Before and after weight loss , IS was assessed using the euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp .
other	Gene expression of IRS-2 , SREBP , intracellular insulin effectors , ACC , FAS , FABP , ADRP , PEPCK , lipogenesis key proteins , perilipin and HSL , lipolysis key proteins were quantified using real-time RT-PCR in subcutaneous and visceral fat .
outcome	BW decreased from 15.2 + / - 0.5 to 11.4 + / - 0.4 kg ( p < 0.05 ) over 78 + / - 8 days .
outcome	When obese , dogs were insulin resistant .
outcome	After weight loss , IS was improved .
other	In the subcutaneous adipose tissue , the expression of only the IRS-2 was increased .
other	In the visceral adipose tissue , the expression of the genes involved in the lipogenesis was decreased whereas one of the genes implied in the lipolysis did not change .
outcome	The expression profile of genes involved in lipid metabolism , as measured after weight loss , is indicative for a lower lipogenesis after weight loss than in obese dogs .
outcome	Our results also confirm dramatic differences in the lipid metabolism of visceral and subcutaneous fat .
outcome	They should be completed by comparing gene expression during weight losing and normal weight steady state .

###10682231
background	Huntington 's disease ( HD ) is characterized by the presence of hyperkinesias , but bradykinesia is also present in most patients .
population	We studied the motor performance of 18 patients with genetically proven HD ( age , 38.5 + / - 10 y ; clinical stage , 1.7 + / - 1.7 ; ( CAG ) triplet length , 49.2 + / - 6.8 triplets ; all but three patients were free from neuroleptics ) and compared with a control group
intervention	Motor study included the four timed tests commonly used for PD : Pronation-supination ( PS ) , finger dexterity ( FD ) , movement between two points ( MTP ) and walking test ( WT ) .
other	Tests were done at 9 AM .
other	The PD group was studied in `` off '' condition , with no medication given for 12 hours .
outcome	The HD group was slower than the controls on all tasks ( all tests significant , p < 0.01 , Mann-Whitney U test ) and even slower than PD group ( for FD , p < 0.05 ) .
outcome	A significant correlation was found between each test and clinical stage ( for PS , r = 0.84 ; for FD , r = 0.75 ; for MTP , r = 087 , and for WT , r = 0.77 , Pearson ) .
outcome	Severe bradykinesia was present in HD , and motor impairment is related to clinical stage .

###1517653
background	Morphine-induced constipation can lead to therapeutic disasters by several mechanisms .
background	It can be readily prevented by administration of appropriate laxatives , but the importance of this simple intervention is often overlooked .
background	Problems resulting from uncontrolled constipation include not only fecal impaction and spurious diarrhea , but also pseudoobstruction of bowel causing abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting , and serious interference with drug administration and absorption .
background	Cancer pain may also be exacerbated .
background	All of these contribute unnecessarily to morbidity and costs of health care .
background	A case that exemplifies many of these problems is presented and discussed .

###2626880
population	The effect of different keeping conditions on body weight gain was studied in 200 male Fzt : DU mice between days 21 and 70 of life .
intervention	The animals were divided in four different housing groups : DU-B ( housing in stress cages ) , DU-B + HI ( housing in stress cages and afterwards in standard cages type HI ) , DU-HI ( housing in standard cages type HI ) and DU-S + AP ( housing in standard group cages ) .
outcome	Housing in stress cages resulted in lower body weight gain at every age ; subsequent housing in standard cages type HI for one week failed to compensate this effects .
outcome	Likewise , keeping of four mice in standard cages type I ( DU-HI ) between days 42 and 70 of life also resulted in delayed body weight gain .
outcome	It is possible that the chosen population density was not an optimum for normal weight gain during the adult life .
outcome	Animals kept in standard stocking cages ( DU-S + AP ) had the highest body weight gain .

###8329746
background	Obesity or leanness of an individual tends to continue from childhood to adult ages .
background	It is therefore desirable to establish a single standard for obesity/leanness that is applicable throughout these stages of life .
background	Trials were made in the present study to examine if ` the Japanese weight and height standards for estimating over - and under-weight ' ( established for adults by the Ministry of Health and Welfare of the Government of Japan ) is applicable also to younger pe
background	The standard is developed with two assumptions that both height and logarithm of weight distribute normally .
population	The height and weight of about 83,000 6th-grade children in primary schools ( 12 years of age ; with boys and girls of an equal number ) , and about 78,000 3rd-year-children in junior high schools ( 15 years of age ) were available .
outcome	The analyses of the data disclosed that , whereas height distributes normally , their weight does not fit with normal distribution when converted logarithmically or even when the conversion is made after subtraction of a constant value from the weight .
outcome	The distribution pattern of weight of children was however essentially the same , independent of height .
outcome	Thus , it was possible to classify the children into five categories of definitely obese ( 10 % ) , tending toward obesity ( 15 % ) , normal ( 50 % ) , slim ( 15 % ) and thin ( 10 % ) groups with the same statistical parameters , regardless of their height excluding extremel

###6448168
population	The laparoscopic findings , treatment , and follow-up of 25 patients who failed artificial insemination donor ( AID ) were retrospectively evaluated .
outcome	A high incidence ( 72 % ) of abnormal pelvic findings was encountered .
outcome	Endometriosis was found in 60 % and pelvic adhesions in 12 % of the patients .
outcome	The incidence of these two entities was not significantly different from their incidence in patients with unexplained infertility in the same institution ( 44 % for endometriosis and 36 % for adhesions ) .
outcome	After surgical or medical treatment , a pregnancy rate of 22.2 % ( 16.6 % for endometriosis and 66.6 % for pelvic adhesions ) was achieved in patients with positive pelvic findings ; in the group with negative pelvic findings , a pregnancy rate of 20 % was achieve
outcome	The value of diagnostic laparoscopy in AID failures is discussed in the light of the findings presented and the relatively low rate of post-treatment pregnancy.americasartificial inseminationdeveloped countriesendoscopyexaminations and diagnosesgenital ef

###9429259
study design	A cross-sectional multicenter study was conducted to estimate the direct costs for each cause of spinal cord injury in the United States .
population	Random samples of 227 new injuries and 508 persons 2-16 years postinjury were selected .
other	Prospective data were collected during one year on all charges for emergency medical services , hospitalizations , attendant care , equipment , supplies , medications , environmental modifications , physician and outpatient services , nursing homes , household assistance , vocational rehabilitation , and miscellaneous items .
outcome	In 1995 dollars , first year charges averaged $ 233,947 for vehicle crashes , $ 217,868 for violence , $ 295,643 for sports , $ 185,019 for falls and $ 208,762 for other causes .
outcome	Recurring annual charges for each cause averaged $ 33,439 , $ 17,275 , $ 27,488 , $ 26,238 and $ 23,510 , respectively .
outcome	Using average age at time of injury for each cause , a 2 % real discount rate , and the most recent survival data from the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center , average lifetime charges for each cause were $ 969,659 , $ 613,345 , $ 950,973 , $ 630,453 and
outcome	Given an estimated 10,000 new cases of spinal cord injury occurring each year of which 35.9 % are caused by vehicle crashes , 29.5 % are caused by violence , 20.3 % are caused by falls , 7.3 % are caused by sports , and 7 % result from other causes , annual aggrega
outcome	Total direct costs for all causes of SCI in the United States are $ 7.736 billion .

###18424818
background	Proteomic technologies offer a high-throughput analysis of the expression of proteins in biological samples .
background	The global analysis of the proteins in peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) fluid will provide a better understanding of the biological processes of the peritoneal membrane .
population	The dialysate of nine paediatric PD patients was collected from peritoneal equilibrium tests with 3.86 % glucose .
intervention	Proteins were separated on a 10 % SDS-PAGE gel and in-gel digested with trypsin .
other	Peptide mixtures were analysed using nanoLC-MS/MS and results were searched against the NCBI database .
outcome	A total number of 189 proteins were identified in the PD fluid of nine patients , with 88 proteins shared by all patients .
outcome	These 88 proteins accounted for 47 % of the identified proteins and > 90 % of the total protein content in the analysed samples .
outcome	Proteins were subdivided into eight different classes according to function .
outcome	This study gives a representative overview of the proteins present in PD fluid .
outcome	The proteins in PD fluid reflect plasma proteins as well as local peritoneal processes .
outcome	Potentially interesting proteins are revealed .

###11014401
background	There have been many reports that spinal anesthesia induces severe lightning pain in the lower limbs of patients with phantom limb pain , tabes dorsalis , or causalgia .
background	We report on a patient with neuropathic pain of central origin who showed newly developed severe lightning pain after therapeutic subarachnoid block ( SAB ) .
background	We performed SAB 16 times in this patient , and he complained of severe pain each time .
background	We investigated which drug was best for treating such induced pain by administering various drugs to the patient .
other	The patient was hospitalized for treatment and observation .
population	The patient was a 48-year-old man with neuropathic pain secondary to an incomplete spinal cord injury at the cervical segment .
intervention	Various drugs were administered for relieving the newly developed severe pain , and the effectiveness of these agents was compared .
outcome	Intravenous thiopental , fentanyl , butorphanol , ketamine , midazolam , droperidol , and sevoflurane-oxygen anesthesia were quite effective .
outcome	Intramuscular butorphanol was not effective .
outcome	Intravenous physiologic saline and atropine sulfate as a placebo , intrathecal morphine hydrochloride , intravenous mexiletine , and lidocaine were ineffective .
outcome	Intravenous thiopental ( approximately 1 mg/kg ) was thought to obtain the best pain relief because it stopped the pain quickly , the dose needed was subanesthetic , and there was no adverse effect .

###15706327
study design	STUDY DESIGN : Case report .
other	To report a rare case of spinal cord infarction following therapeutic computed tomography-guided nerve root injection .
background	Diagnostic and therapeutic image-guided nerve root injection is commonly performed in the management of low back pain and sciatica .
background	The severe complication of spinal cord infarction has been reported in only 3 cases previously .
other	Retrospective review of case records and imaging .
population	A 71-year-old woman presented with symptoms and signs of left L2 nerve root compression .
outcome	She was managed with computed tomography-guided left L2 nerve root injection using bupivacaine and triamcinolone and developed immediate bilateral sensory loss and paraplegia .
outcome	Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated diffuse hyperintensity within the distal thoracic cord and conus on T2-weighted images , consistent with spinal cord infarction .
outcome	We report the fourth case of spinal cord infarction following nerve root injection .
outcome	The severity of this complication warrants that it should be considered during patient consent for this procedure .

###16872507
background	Hospital-based clinicians have been shown to use and attain benefits from online evidence systems .
background	To our knowledge there have been no studies investigating whether and how ambulance officers use online evidence systems if provided .
background	We surveyed ambulance officers to examine their knowledge and use of the Clinical Information Access Program ( CIAP ) , an online evidence system providing 24-hour access to information to support evidence-based practice .
population	A questionnaire was completed by 278 ambulance officers in New South Wales , Australia .
other	Comparisons were made between those who used CIAP and officers who had heard of , but not used CIAP .
outcome	Half the sample ( 48.6 % ) knew of , and 28.8 % had used CIAP .
outcome	Users were more likely to have heard of CIAP from a CIAP representative/presentation , non-users from written information .
outcome	Compared to ambulance officers who had heard of but had not used CIAP , users were more likely to report better computer skills and that their supervisors regarded use of CIAP as a legitimate part of ambulance officers ' clinical role .
outcome	The main reasons for non-use were lack of access ( 49.0 % ) and training ( 31.4 % ) .
outcome	Of users , 51.3 % rated their skills at finding information as good/very good , 67.5 % found the information sought all/most of the time , 87.3 % believed CIAP had the potential to improve patient care and 28.2 % had directly experienced this .
outcome	Most access to CIAP occurred at home .
outcome	The databases frequently accessed were MIMS ( A medicines information database ) ( 73.8 % ) and MEDLINE ( 67.5 % ) .
outcome	The major journals accessed were Journal of Emergency Nursing ( 37.5 % ) , American Journal of Medicine ( 30.0 % ) and JAMA ( 27.5 % ) .
outcome	Over half of ambulance officers had not heard of CIAP .
outcome	The proportion who knew about and used CIAP was also low .
outcome	Reasons for this appear to be a work culture not convinced of CIAP 's relevance to pre-hospital patient care and lack of access to CIAP at work .

###10796941
background	To document differences in color Doppler flow and gray-scale ultrasonographic ( US ) features between benign and malignant axillary lymph nodes in women with primary breast cancer .
population	The longitudinal-transverse axis ratio and hilar status on color Doppler flow and gray-scale US images were prospectively studied for each of 145 axillary nodes in 135 women ( 74 palpable nodes in 69 women , 71 nonpalpable nodes in 66 women ) with primary br
other	Intranodal flow distribution was described as peripheral , central , or central perhilar .
other	Resistive and pulsatility indexes and peak systolic velocity were documented .
other	For comparison of benign and malignant features , nodes were divided into three groups palpable and nonpalpable , palpable , and nonpalpable .
outcome	Color flow was demonstrated equally well in benign and malignant axillary lymph nodes for all three groups .
outcome	For all nodes , peripheral flow was significantly higher in malignant ( 118 of 153 nodes [ 77 % ] ) than benign ( 45 of 160 nodes [ 28 % ] ) nodes ( P < .001 ) ; central flow and central perhilar flow were significantly greater ( P < .002 and < .001 , respectively )
outcome	Similar differences were not observed in nonpalpable nodes .
outcome	The mean longitudinal-transverse axis ratio ( + / - SD ) was significantly lower in malignant ( 1.8 + / - 0.6 ) than benign ( 2.6 + / - 0.8 ) nodes .
outcome	Logistic regression analysis showed peripheral , central , and central perhilar flow and the mean longitudinal-transverse axis ratio to be significant independent predictors of malignancy .
outcome	Color Doppler flow and gray-scale US features applicable to the identification of disease in palpable axillary nodes in patients with breast cancer are not applicable to nonpalpable nodes .

###9494625
background	A patient with a whiplash injury suffering from prolonged symptoms , including pain and weakness of the right upper extremity and the symptoms of Barré-Liéou syndrome , was diagnosed and treated with the Bi-Digital O-Ring Test as a supplement to standard
outcome	Radiological findings showed spondylotic canal stenosis with osteophytes and disc protrusions .
outcome	The Bi-Digital O-Ring Test indicated a strong abnormal response around the right side of his neck and right shoulder , including the area of the vertebral artery and at acupuncture point GB 21 , where positive resonant responses to Cytomegalovirus and Strep
outcome	Antibiotic and anti-viral agents , as well as Ku-Oketsu-Zai , a type of Oriental herbal medicine for overcoming blood stagnation or stasis , were administered according to the drug compatibility test using the Bi-Digital O-ring Test and the following clinica
outcome	Infection at the site of the vertebral artery and the peri-arterial sympathetic nerve plexus was considered as a cause of the prolongation of the symptoms including Barré-Liéou syndrome , in this case .
outcome	In addition we especially noted , in this clinical case , that the patient 's impaired grasping force dramatically improved from 8 kg to 52 kg in a very short periods of time when the patient held suitable medicine selected with the Bi-Digital O-Ring Test dr
outcome	We assume that the drug action was transferred electromagnetically , by which the pathological electromagnetic oscillations caused by trauma and following infections were scavenged .
outcome	This effect might lead to an improvement in the coordination of the neuromuscular system .

###17064427
background	The longitudinal course of children and adolescents with bipolar disorder ( BP ) is manifested by frequent changes in symptom polarity with a fluctuating course showing a dimensional continuum of bipolar symptom severity from subsyndromal to mood syndromes
background	These rapid fluctuations in mood appear to be more accentuated than in adults with BP , and combined with the high rate of comorbid disorders and the child 's cognitive and emotional developmental stage , may explain the difficulties encountered diagnosing a
background	Children and adolescents with early-onset , low socioeconomic status , subsyndromal mood symptoms , long duration of illness , rapid mood fluctuation , mixed presentations , psychosis , comorbid disorders , and family psychopathology appear to have worse longitud
background	BP in children and adolescents is associated with high rates of hospitalizations , psychosis , suicidal behaviors , substance abuse , family and legal problems , as well as poor psychosocial functioning .
background	These factors , in addition to the enduring and rapid changeability of symptoms of this illness from very early in life , and at crucial stages in their lives , deprive BP children of the opportunity for normal psychosocial development .
background	Thus , early recognition and treatment of BP in children and adolescents is of utmost importance .

###16630032
background	The aims of the study were to describe the prevalence and associations of mental health disorder ( MHD ) among a cohort of HIV-infected patients attending the Victorian HIV/AIDS Service between 1984 and 2000 , and to examine whether antiretroviral therapy us
background	It was hypothesized that HIV-positive individuals with MHD would have poorer treatment outcomes , reduced responses to highly active antiretroviral therapy ( HAART ) and increased mortality compared with those without MHD .
population	This is a retrospective cohort of 2981 individuals ( 73 % of the Victorian population diagnosed with HIV infection ) captured on an HIV database which was electronically matched with the public Victorian Psychiatric Case Register ( VPCR ) ( accounting for 95 % o
other	The prevalence , dates and recorded specifics of mental health disorders at the time of the electronic match on 1 June 2000 are described .
other	The association with recorded MHD , gender , age , AIDS illness , HIV exposure category , duration and type of antiviral therapy , treatment era ( prior to 1986 , post-1987 and pre-HAART , and post-HAART ) on hospitalization and mortality at 1 September 2001 was assessed .
outcome	Five hundred and twenty-five individuals ( 17.6 % of the Victorian HIV-positive population ) were recorded with MHD , most frequently coded as attributable to substance dependence/abuse or affective disorder .
outcome	MHD was diagnosed prior to HIV in 33 % and , of those diagnosed after HIV , 93.8 % were recorded more than 1 year after the HIV diagnosis .
outcome	Schizophrenia was recorded in 6 % of the population with MHD .
outcome	Hospitalizations for both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric illness were more frequent in those with MHD ( relative risk 5.4 ; 95 % confidence interval 3.7 , 8.2 ) .
outcome	The total number of antiretrovirals used ( median 6.4 agents vs 5.5 agents ) was greater in those with MHD .
outcome	When adjusted for antiretroviral treatment era , HIV exposure category , CD4 cell count and antiretroviral therapy , survival was not affected by MHD .
outcome	MHD is frequent in this population with HIV infection and is associated with increased healthcare utilization but not with reduced survival .

###16198249
background	Sympathetic benefits of thoracoscopic cardiac resynchronization therapy ( TCRT ) in congestive heart failure ( CHF ) are unknown .
background	We determined cardiac hemodynamics , functional status , and muscle sympathetic nerve activity ( MSNA ) in a group of TCRT patients .
other	We aimed to compare these patients with CHF patients with cardiac asynchrony ( ASY ) to substantiate the beneficial effects of TCRT .
population	Eleven patients resynchronized by TCRT 6 + / - 1 months before study inclusion ( SYN ) and 10 matched ASY patients underwent blood pressure , heart rate , and MSNA recordings .
other	All underwent functional status , cardiac index , and left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) assessments .
outcome	SYN patients had shorter QRS duration and interventricular mechanical delays , longer 6 minute walking distance and lower New York Heart Association class ( all P < .05 ) than ASY patients .
outcome	MSNA of 56 + / - 2 bursts/min in ASY patients was higher than in SYN patients ( 48 + / - 3 bursts/min , P < .05 ) .
outcome	Cardiac index was higher in SYN patients than in ASY patients ( 2.8 + / - 0.2 versus 1.9 + / - 0.2 L.min.m2 , P < .05 , respectively ) .
outcome	MSNA was highest in the patients with the lowest LVEF ( r = -0.49 , P < .05 ) , cardiac index ( r = -0.48 , P < .05 ) and 6-minute walking distance ( r = -0.50 , P < .05 ) .
outcome	Lower sympathetic nerve activities in TCRT patients are related to more favorable cardiac indexes and six minute walking distances suggesting a sympathetic , hemodynamic , and functional improvement by TCRT .

###16923325
other	There is limited randomized controlled trial ( RCT ) evidence for compulsory community treatment .
other	Other study methods may clarify their effectiveness .
background	We reviewed RCT and non-RCT evidence for the effect of compulsory community treatment on hospital admissions , bed-days , compliance and out-patient contacts .
study design	A systematic review of RCTs , controlled before-and-after ( CBA ) studies , and interrupted time series ( ITS ) analyses .
other	Meta-analysis of RCTs .
outcome	Eight papers covering five studies ( two RCTs and three CBAs ) met inclusion criteria ( total n = 1108 ) .
outcome	There was no statistical difference in 12-month admission rates between subjects on involuntary out-patient treatment and controls .
outcome	Survival analyses of time to admission were equivocal .
outcome	All five studies reported decreases in the number of bed-days following involuntary out-patient treatment but this only reached statistical significance in one situation ; patients receiving the intervention were less likely to have admissions of over 100
outcome	There was no difference in treatment adherence between the intervention and control groups in either RCT or two of the CBA studies .
outcome	However , the third CBA study reported a statistically significant increase of nearly five visits in the mean number of overall contacts in the involuntary out-patient treatment group .
outcome	The evidence for involuntary out-patient treatment in reducing either admissions or bed-days is very limited .
outcome	It therefore can not be seen as a less restrictive alternative to admission .
outcome	Other effects are uncertain .
outcome	Evaluation of a wide range of outcomes should be included if this type of legislation is introduced .

###15048662
background	The serotonin 5-HT ( 2C ) receptor ( HTR2C ) helps regulate appetite and body weight .
background	An HTR2C promoter polymorphism ( -759 C/T ) has been associated with obesity and with weight gain in response to antipsychotic ( neuroleptic ) drugs .
population	We studied this polymorphism in 120 obese women ( BMI > or = 30 ) and 104 non-obese ( BMI < or = 25 ) women .
other	The C allele was commoner in the obese group ( OR = 1.72 [ 95 % CI , 1.13-2 .64 ] , P = 0.008 ) .
intervention	Ninety-five of the obese women participated in a randomized trial of psychological treatments for weight loss .
outcome	Among these women , heterozygotes lost less weight during the trial than did homozygotes ( 6.8 vs. 9.7 kg ; P = 0.047 ) and weighed more 6 months ( 90.1 vs. 83.6 kg ; P = 0.006 ) and 12 months ( 91.8 vs. 84.6 kg ; P = 0.009 ) later .
outcome	Heterozygotes also had higher triglyceride levels than homozygotes .
outcome	C/C subjects in the obesity trial did not differ from T/T subjects in terms of weight loss or triglycerides .
outcome	In a separate RT-PCR study of 43 subjects , we found that HTR2C mRNA abundance in frontal cortex was unaffected by -759 C/T status .
outcome	Our data extend the evidence that HTR2C promoter variation may be a risk factor for obesity and , perhaps through heterosis , influences weight loss by obese women .
outcome	Pharmacogenetic testing of HTR2C promoter variants may be valuable when evaluating anti-obesity drugs which act directly or indirectly on the receptor .

###7188375
background	The new non-benzodiazepine hypnotic , zopiclone , was investigated as a preanaesthetic medication in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study in healthy patients scheduled for minor gynaecological surgery .
background	Initially a dose-finding study was conducted in which zopiclone 3.75 mg , 7.5 , and 11.25 mg was compared with diazepam 10 mg and placebo ; 7.5 mg was established as the optimum dose of zopiclone .
outcome	In the main study zopiclone 7.5 mg was comparable to diazepam 10 mg at 20 , 40 , and 60 min after administration and more efficacious at 90 min .

###8965965
background	To evaluate the prescription of antidepressants in general practice .
study design	Retrospective observational study .
other	Three health centres and one practice with two partners in the Western part of the Netherlands ( near Leiden ) .
population	Medication data and daily medical records of general practitioners ( GPs ) were analysed in the anonymous data set of Registratie network universitaire huisartspraktijken Leiden en Omstreken ( RNUH-LEO , with a total of about 23,000 patients ) of patients 18 y
other	For indication ` depression ' we also evaluated whether the prescription was repeated and a minimal effective dosage was reached .
outcome	In one year 218 patients received a first prescription of an antidepressant ( 9/1 ,000 / year ) , mostly a classical antidepressant .
outcome	In 61 % the indication ` depression ' was found in the medical records .
outcome	Sixty-three per cent had a repeat prescription after one month .
outcome	Serotonin reuptake inhibitors were repeated more frequently than classical antidepressants , especially for patients under the age of 65 .
outcome	The minimally effective dosage was reached in 61 % of the patients with depression for the classical antidepressants , and for 98 % of patients with serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
outcome	Serotonin reuptake inhibitors were not prescribed more frequently than classical antidepressants .
outcome	The percentage of patients with repeat prescriptions showed that the GPs should pay continued attention to compliance with therapy when prescribing antidepressants .
outcome	The effective dosage appeared to be reached most often with serotonin reuptake inhibitors .

###10858942
background	The purpose of this study was to assess grade , race , socioeconomic status and gender differences in perceptions of body size , weight concerns , and weight control practices between 4th and 7th grade students in South Carolina .
population	Two random samples , consisting of a total of 1,597 children ( 53.1 % white , 51.97 % female , 44.9 % 4th graders ) participated in two questionnaire surveys .
other	Both surveys included a series of seven female and seven male body size drawings , body image and weight concern questions , and questions pertaining to weight control practices .
other	Responses to the questionnaire were analyzed using chi-square analysis and the General Linear Model .
outcome	Using socioeconomic status ( SES ) , race , gender , and grade as independent variables , differences in ideal adult body size , opposite gender ideal adult body size , weight concerns , perceptions of family/peer weight concerns , perceptions of own body size and
outcome	Analyses revealed that 4th grade males select a larger ideal adult body size and opposite gender ideal adult body size when compared to 7th grade males ( p < 0.0001 and p = 0.0078 , respectively ) .
outcome	Fourth grade females indicated less personal concern about their weight than 7th grade females ( p = 0.0009 ) .
outcome	Fourth graders also perceived less family/peer concern about weight than 7th graders ( p = 0.0027 ) and 7th graders described themselves as being more overweight than 4th graders ( p = 0.0039 ) .
outcome	Blacks selected a significantly larger body size than white children for ideal adult ( p = 0.0287 ) and ideal opposite gender adult body size ( p < 0.0001 for males , p = 0.0030 for females ) .
outcome	Blacks also perceived less personal and family/peer concern about weight when compared to whites ( p = 0.0083 ) .
outcome	More whites reported that they were trying to lose weight , as compared to blacks ( p = 0.0010 ) .
outcome	Males also selected significantly larger body size silhouettes than females for ideal adult body size ( p = 0.0012 ) .
outcome	Males expressed less personal concern about weight ( p < 0.0001 ) , perceived less family/peer concern about weight ( p < 0.0001 ) , and were less likely than females to be engaged in weight loss ( p < 0.0001 ) .
outcome	Females in the high SES category selected a significantly smaller ideal male adult body size than females in the low SES group ( p = 0.0124 ) and more females in the high SES category were trying to lose weight when compared to females in the low SES group
outcome	This study indicates that early in a child 's sociocultural development , grade level , gender , race , and SES are influential in the perception of ideal adult body size and opposite gender ideal adult body size .
outcome	These factors are also influential in determining concerns about weight and weight control practices .
outcome	The findings of this study support the need to begin health and wellness education efforts early in childhood while taking into account racial , gender , age , and SES disparities .
outcome	This knowledge can also be useful in targeting interventions for both obesity and eating disorders .

###1339739
population	Immunoregulatory function of peripheral blood monocytes was studied in 20 patients with colorectal cancer , by assaying interleukin 1 ( IL-1 ) and prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2 ) in the culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated monocytes .
outcome	The results showed that IL-1 activity of the monocyte culture supernatant was decreased in the preoperative patients , compared with that of controls or postoperative groups ; the PGE2 content of the culture supernatant of monocytes from the preoperative ca
outcome	Again , we found that there was significant negative correlation between IL-1 activity and the PGE2 content , with the activity of IL-1 the lowest and the content of PGE2 the highest in advanced colonic cancer patients .

###12831873
background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) initiates immediate and secondary neuropathological cascades that can result in persistent neurological dysfunction .
background	Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that experimental rat brain injury causes a rapid and persistent decrease in CNS alpha7 * nicotinic cholinergic receptor ( nAChr ) expression .
background	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether intermittent nicotine injections could improve cognitive performance in the Morris water maze ( MWM ) following experimental brain injury .
population	Adult male rats were anesthetized and subjected to a 1.5 mm controlled cortical impact ( CCI ) injury of the somatosensory cortex .
intervention	Animals received twice daily i.p. nicotine injections for 11 days prior to CCI , 11 days following CCI or during both pre - and post-surgical intervals .
other	MWM training was initiated 12 days post-injury .
outcome	In the training phase of cognitive testing , twice-daily nicotine treatment following injury attenuated trauma-induced deficits in the distance traveled to reach the escape platform .
outcome	This group of animals also had improvements in several measures of the probe test , including time spent , distance traveled and total entries into the target quadrant .
outcome	TBI caused significant deficits in alpha7 * nAChr expression in several regions of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex , which were largely unaffected by intermittent nicotine treatment .
outcome	However , nicotine treatment up-regulated [ ( 3 ) H ] - epibatidine binding to non-alpha7 * nAChrs , attenuating TBI-induced deficits in receptor expression in several brain regions evaluated .
outcome	These results suggest that nicotine is efficacious at attenuating CCI-induced cognitive deficits in a manner independent of changes in alpha7 * nAChr expression , perhaps via up-regulation of non-alpha7 * nAChrs .

###6832499
background	A study was conducted to determine the feasibility of quantifying spasticity in plantarflexors by measuring the resistance to passive dorsiflexion of the ankle joint at several constant angular speeds .
population	Repeated testing was conducted on normal subjects and spastic patients .
outcome	Good repeatability was found for both groups and both groups were found to differ significantly from each other with respect to the measurement variable .
outcome	The method will provide a useful tool for quantifying alterations in plantarflexor spasticity which result from various surgical and non-surgical treatments .

###11440825
background	The offspring of women with hypertension during pregnancy are at increased risk of low birthweight , preterm birth , diseases of prematurity and death .
background	The risk of developing these outcomes among women with either preeclampsia or chronic hypertension , relative to those with gestational hypertension , is not known .
study design	Prospective cohort study .
population	A total of 1948 singleton women seen at a large tertiary care obstetrical center , whose blood pressure was greater than 140/90 mm Hg during pregnancy .
other	The four types of hypertension were strictly defined 864 women ( 44.4 % ) had gestational hypertension , 459 ( 23.6 % ) isolated chronic hypertension , 501 ( 25.7 % ) isolated preeclampsia , and 124 ( 6.4 % ) chronic hypertension with superimposed preeclampsia .
other	The primary outcome of the study was a composite of the diseases of prematurity , need for assisted ventilation for greater than 1 day , or perinatal death .
other	The secondary outcomes were each of those included in the primary endpoint , as well as admission to the neonatal ICU , small for gestational age ( SGA ) birthweight and preterm birth .
other	We controlled for the effects of other maternal risk factors , such as age , parity , history of preterm delivery , cigarette smoking , pre-pregnancy weight , diabetes mellitus ( DM ) , renal dysfunction , and current use of an antihypertensive agent or prednisone .
outcome	For the primary composite outcome , compared to the offspring of women with gestational hypertension , the adjusted odds ratio was 1.9 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.2 to 3.0 ) in the preeclamptic group and 2.0 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.0 to 4.0 ) for those with
outcome	Those with preeclampsia were at increased risk for small for gestational age birthweight ( odds ratio 2.2 , 95 % confidence interval 1.5 to 3.1 ) , as were the offspring of mothers who had chronic hypertension with superimposed preeclampsia ( odds ratio 2.1 , 95
outcome	Similarly , the rate of preterm birth before 32 weeks was highest among the infants of both preeclamptic mothers ( 28.5 % ; odds ratio 4.7 , 95 % confidence interval 2.9 to 7.6 ) and those with chronic hypertension and preeclampsia ( 30.5 % ; odds ratio 3.5 , 95 % co
outcome	The perinatal mortality rate was highest in the group of women with chronic hypertension plus preeclampsia ( 9.2 % ; odds ratio 3.2 , 95 % confidence interval 1.2 to 9.1 ) .
outcome	Other significant risk factors for the primary composite outcome included previous preterm delivery ( odds ratio 2.7 , 95 % confidence interval 1.4 to 5.2 ) , smoking ( odds ratio 1.8 , 95 % confidence interval 1.1 to 3.0 ) and use of an antihypertensive agent dur
outcome	Prednisone use was strongly associated with risk for perinatal death ( odds ratio 4.9 , 95 % confidence interval 1.4 to 17.1 ) .
outcome	Relative to women with isolated gestational hypertension , those who develop preeclampsia , either with or without underlying chronic hypertension , experience worse perinatal outcomes .
outcome	A history of previous preterm delivery and maternal smoking increase the rate preterm birth and major perinatal disease .
outcome	Antihypertensive and prednisone therapy may be important risk factors for adverse perinatal events , but further research is needed to confirm these findings .

###15231553
background	Despite anecdotal reports that serotonin reuptake inhibitors may improve depersonalisation , there is no proven efficacious treatment for depersonalisation disorder .
other	To investigate the efficacy of fluoxetine in the treatment of depersonalisation disorder .
population	Fifty-four people who met DSM-IV criteria for depersonalisation disorder were recruited through newspaper advertisements , and 50 were randomised to a 10-week , double-blind trial of fluoxetine 10-60 mg/day or placebo .
other	Primary outcome measures were the Dissociative Experiences Scale-Depersonalisation Factor , the Depersonalization Severity Scale and the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement ( CGI-I ) scale .
outcome	Intention-to-treat analysis revealed that fluoxetine ( mean dosage 48 mg/day ) was not superior to placebo except for a clinically minimal but statistically significantly greater improvement in CGI-I score in the fluoxetine group prior to covarying for anxi
outcome	Depersonalisation was significantly more likely to improve if comorbid anxiety disorder improved .
outcome	Fluoxetine was not efficacious in treating depersonalisation disorder , despite the commonly reported clinical use of serotonin reuptake inhibitors for this condition .

